

Background for Cool Darkness

	Sinclair was one of the first people to develop electromagnetic 
devices and weapons.  He created the first series of needlers and gaussian 
weaponry and has been creating state-of-the-art weaponry ever since.  
The Sinclair K2 is a single hand-held needler that is not-so common 
among well armed groups or people of the lower class.  It uses longer 
needles than the K1, a single-hand needler that uses 3" needles, 80 per 
four inch mag.  These needles are 5" long with a 5" mag holding 50.  It's 
wider than a K1 and is used primarily for penetration and power against 
armored individuals.  Most K2's are semiauto while the K1 has on-the-fly 
switching from semi to full auto capabilities.  Cerated, armor piercing 
and explosive needles are available into the military, security and black 
markets.

	Polymetals are alloys of metals that have polymer composites 
fabricated into the material at the time of final molding.  This allows for 
improved chemical and physical properties of the material while 
improving its strength and the ability to keep a sharp edge.  It also aids 
in reinforcing materials such as strengthening armor plating and 
bullet-proof jackets.

	The story takes place somewhere around 2030 in a fast growing 
suburb of Philadelphia.




				Cool Darkness
					by Matthew Carpenter



			Chapter 1 : Mark of the Huntress	

	"Awe, shit.  Man this is too much for one night" Dave sighed.
Five hours on the net after a full day's work at the office was enough
for a 24 hour day.  He slouched back into his recliner and turned on the 
built in massage, pulled the plugs from his system and blankly stared at 
the ceiling.
	"Too bad you still got a few hours before it's over."  He loosened
his tie and unbuttoned the top button of his white shirt.  A midnight
snack should be good he thought to himself.  He sleepily stood up 
between rolls of computer paper and electronic cables snaking through 
the small den of his apartment in Philly.  'Thank god the lights are off or 
I'd really have a headache.'  Dave walked out of the room, still thinking 
over the latest ideas from work involving the net connections between 
North America and Europe.  'Goddamn bureaucrats think they know 
everything.  Hell, they probably couldn't even tell if I changed their 
comm links from DC to LA.'  The walk to the refrigerator was short.  The 
light from inside blinded him shortly since it was the only light on in 
the house.  'I wonder what Cryon is up to tonight.  They haven't been 
going out as much lately as they used to.'  A thought that sounded like 
something was getting ready to go down, but with no background.  They 
haven't done anything lately that would hint to it.  He didn't like that.
	He pulled an open jar of pickles out of the frig and a container of 
mustard, opened the bread drawer and got a loaf of old bread that was on
the brink of molding.  Some meat and a bag of chips followed.  He sat 
down at the small round table next the to kitchen entrance and began 
making a sandwich.  He took a bite.  'Damn thing is getting stale.  I 
wonder how Nick is doing?  The last time I talked with him must've been 
2 weeks ago.'  He swiveled around in his chair to a wall panel and entered 
the code for  a direct telecom interconnect.
	The video jumped up and Nick's tired face showed up on the 
screen.
	"Nick, how you doin' man?" squawked Dave getting ready to take 
another bite out of his sandwich.
	"Dave...Do you know what time it is?"
	"Yeah, but I couldn't sleep.  What's up.  I haven't.."
	Blink.  Blink.  A monitor light went on.  Someone's at the door, 
thought Dave.  'Who the hell would come at a time like this?'
	"Hang on, someone's at the door."
	"At this time of night?"  It was too late.  Dave was already up and 
heading for the door.  Opening up another panel, the lights went on and 
Dave spoke through the intercom mic.
	"Who's there?"
	The monitor light blinked again.
	"I said who's there!?"  'No answer.  No answer.'  Something's up.  
He began walking away from the door.  
	"Get out Nick.  Somethin's up!"  yelled Dave from across the room.
	"What's going on over there Dave!?"
	THUD..THUD.  CRACK!  Dave's door popped partly open as the 
bottom hinge cracked out of the door frame.  THUD..THUD..SMASH!  The 
top hinge nearly exploded open with force as the door toppled to one 
side, rendering the computer and physical locking mechanisms 
completely ineffective.  Dave scurried backward as a large man slowly 
walked into the apartment, stepping on the discarded door.  Dark short 
hair and a dark skinned face sat on top of a set of shoulders and a huge 
frame as he pulled something out of his dark, tattered overcoat.  Dave 
turned to run towards his den when a silent shot was fired into his left 
leg.  
	"Aaauuuuu!" screamed Dave as he fell into the table where he had 
just begun his midnight snack.  The telecom monitor flicked off as Dave 
moved to face his attacker.  He side slouched into his chair, holding his 
leg.  A needle stuck out of it by about an inch, leaving a small circular 
blood stain forming on his dress pants.
	The man walked up to Dave shooting another two silent shots into 
his leg, making him scream in pain.  A large hand wrapped itself around 
Dave's throat and began picking him up.  His face reddened and his eyes 
began to bulge as he was suspended in mid air by his attacker's 
suffocating grip.  His grip was hard, almost too hard as Dave reached up 
with both hands to grasp it.
	"Who the hell are you!" Dave spit out having more difficulty 
breathing.  The light from the room was in his eyes so he couldn't see his 
enemy's face.  He didn't remember running into him before, he was sure 
of that.  A shot was fired at the control panel on the wall, but not by his 
attacker who had put his gun down on the dining table.  Another shot 
and the panel exploded in an array of sparks and flames.  A final shot 
was fired at the lights which exploded out, darkening the apartment 
once more.  Dave flinched from the spraying glass.  He was lifted a little 
higher as his assailant's other fist flew into Dave's lower ribs, making a 
noticeable cracking sound as it shattered a few, knocking the wind out of 
Dave.  He was then turned around and thrown into the opposite wall of 
his den a few feet away.  His attacker turned around to pick up his gun, 
which gave Dave a little time to move out of the way by crawling into his 
den amongst the electronics and wires.  Two more shots were fired 
directly into his leg as he was almost fully in, leaving him immobile 
from the pain with only the sounds of heavy footsteps echoing toward 
the den's entrance.
	The split, mangy tails of a cheap grayish-black overcoat dangled 
at the ankles of Dave's pursuer.  Combat boots and a dark cat burglar's 
baggy suit shown underneath the opened coat, as a Sinclair K2 was being 
placed back in it's shoulder harness, then covered by the thick fiber-
metal mesh coat.  He couldn't see a face or even a head from his 
encumbered position on the carpeted floor.  Dave just stared at his large 
enemy, unable to move from the pain in his cracked ribs, and the 5 inch 
needles sticking out of his left leg.  The only taste from his interrupted 
midnight snack away from the net was of blood.
	"Next time, don't fuck with Nestroth, Dave" came a quiet but stern 
female voice from the doorway; the type that could be sweet if it didn't 
send a shiver down your spine, but would scare the hell out of you if 
caught in a dark alley on Halloween.  
	Dave tried looking past his pursuer.  He knew that voice, he knew 
it from somewhere.  Nestroth gave him a hint, but there was no match.  
Not with that female voice.  It just sounded so familiar, but then again it 
didn't.  He just couldn't place it.  He had run into Nestroth a few times 
trying to break a few systems, but he'd never tangled with them, at least 
not to his knowledge.  Every time he had run into them, they either 
kicked him out or he got out himself.  He knew Nestroth was not one to be 
messed with, anywhere.  Anyone who did normally either was found 
dead or never found.  That didn't help Dave's thinking as he stared at his 
victor with only the thought of death running around in his head.  'If 
only I could think of what got me into this in the first place' Dave 
thought to himself, hoping for a chance to get out of it one way or the 
other.
	A hand slapped against the left shoulder of the overcoat.  Slowly 
and with enough coolness to chill ice, he moved to one side of the 
doorway without losing sight of his prey.  Blue and red streaks of light 
shined in from the neon streetlights through the opposing windows, 
leaving less to be hidden in the not-so-well kept apartment.  A few 
computer screens flickered and with the outside light, showed the 
mounds of electronics and scrap papers lying all over the small room.  
An athletically slender female figure covered only with a skintight body 
suit and a pair of stainless steel spiked heels, entered the room with the 
finesse and grace of a cat, and noticeably the cunning of one as well.  
Her slender body left little to the imagination as she snaked towards 
Dave.  Shiny metallic nail polish glistened on her fingertips in the 
sporadic changing lights.  Her footsteps made no noise as her spiked 
heels sank into the thick carpet and almost pierced through the material 
underneath.  Her bodysuit was mostly black with the exception of a dark 
red artistic line running across the main body of it, creating fading 
curls of color along an arm and the opposite leg.  Her hair matched the 
entire outfit; dark and slightly long, but not touching her shoulders.
	"Stand up shithead" she hissed walking to within inches of his 
pale face.
	"I..I...I can't.  My leg.." he whimpered.
	"Just do it or I'll have Nemesis stand you up whether you like it or 
not!"
	Remembering his encounter a few moments ago with 'Nemesis', 
he painfully began to bring himself up to a hunched over position, still 
holding his leg in pain.  He looked near her fearing the consequences of 
eye contact.  Blood trickled from his left leg and stained his business 
pants as he favored the other leg; the polymetal needles still sticking out 
of his leg.
	"Last night will be the last time you go after Cryon, Dave.  Do we 
understand each other?"
	"I didn't go against Cryon last night, honest I didn't" he sputtered 
back.  Sweat beads were forming on his head as her hot breath touched 
his face, while she pushed her face within an inch of his.
	"Don't bullshit me Dave.  Nestroth ran into you last night while 
going against Cryon and you fucked us up!  Don't make me..".
	"I haven't run into Nestroth in weeks and that was only an 
accident, really.  I don't want any trouble with Nestroth.  Come on, 
they're too big for me" he shakingly replied.  "Hell, I don't even know 
you guys.  That's how long it's been since I....".
	Backing away from his face, she retracted a set of 4 inch claws 
that lay at her waistside which had gone unnoticed until now.  Her 
eyebrows still in a devilish frown.  Her breathing still calm.  Her lips 
tight with fury, contrary to Dave's sweating, pale face.  A dark red stain 
was forming on his white shirt where Nemesis had punched him earlier.
	Raising her hand, "You may call me Slash" was her only reply as 
her claws extended to a solid 7 inches, and left his head lying next to his 
crumpled body as the blue light shined off the blood dripping from her 
otherwise spotless weapon of choice.  The only sound was a distant 
humming from the changing neon lights, and a grinning Nemesis.




			Cool Darkness
				by Matthew Carpenter



		Chapter 2 : Welcome to the Jungle

	"Enter Password" spit the computer controlled lock of a small 
warehouse on the other side of town; the dirty side of town.  Trash lay all 
around the alleyway and the light blowing smog that seems to inhabit 
the entire city rolled by, bring papers and dust with it.  Slash entered the 
neural code embedded into Nestroth's security ROM chip, implanted into 
her skull, and took her security card back as the graffitied, grayish 
metal alley door unlocked.  She walking in just as smoothly as she had 
done entering Dave's apartment, with Nemesis behind her shutting the 
door with the echoing thud of a vault.

	The semi-lit corridor weaved to the right a little bit.  The corridor 
was surrounded by old wooden crates piled on metal warehouse frames 
slightly beginning to rust from the humidity of the city air.  A metal 
catwalk lingered just above Nemesis' head as they walked into the open 
meeting room of Nestroth.  This was one of there meeting places.  One 
that was used after the fact.  The whole warehouse was only 50 by 50 feet, 
but it was perfect for their purposes:  small enough to be unnoticed; 
large enough to be useful.  There was a bar on the opposing wall from 
the entrance.  A pool table, a few TV's, a bar and a stereo made up the 
majority of the hall while the computer links and weapon banks were 
closest to the left wall.  Everything a person could want after a job, while 
still maintaining some security to the place.  A glance around from Slash 
produced a few scanners locked on them, verifying who's who.  A guard 
armed appropriately watched from the right catwalk that continued 
around the entire warehouse.  Dressed in normal street clothes, he raised 
his gloved right hand as a sign of hello to Slash.  She slightly nodded 
hello and continued looking around.

	A few desks were scattered around the room with paperwork, 
blueprints and other 'necessities' on top or laid out on built in desk 
monitors.  A medium sized man with an open white jacket, yellow shirt 
and nice slacks looked to be jacked in at one of the desks in a lounge 
chair.  The only thing was there was no cable.  A metal band with 
blinking LEDs wrapped around the back of his head connecting his two 
ports, but weren't connected to anything else.  His eyes blinked and he 
raised his head from his propped up arms to notice the two.  A few lights 
flashed on and off on his headgear and he raised his right arm to the 
back of it.  A few seconds later, the two sides of the device connected to 
his ports popped off and he placed the gear down onto the table.  A small 
stretch and a wipe of the eyes and he stood up reaching for the beer in 
front of him.

	Slash walked towards him as she noticed out of the corner of her 
eye, Nemesis going to a sofa on the far side of the room to throw his 
jacket down.  

	"So what did you bring me?" he asked, not changing his blank 
expression.

	"Merry Christmas , Nebulus" Slash retorted in a painfully sly tone 
of voice and a slight grin as she pulled Dave's head out of the black bag 
she was holding.

	"Not bad.  What else did you bring me?" Nebulus asked raising an 
eyebrow, taking another drink without removing his eyes from her.

	"The last time he said he ran into us was a few weeks ago" she said 
dropping his head into the disposal system next to the desk without a 
thought or a look.  "He denied going after Cryon last night.  He died with 
his story in tact so either he was one devoted liar, or he was too scared to 
make up a fake story.  In any case, we've got copies of his records for the
past two months including his work on the international nets and his
individual activities around the sites."

	Nemesis had put his coat down and returned to the discussion.  
Standing about half a foot over Nebulus, his body was highlighted from 
the lighting array suspended from the ceiling by chains.  His skin was 
very dark brown with tints of gray that seemed even darker behind 
Nebulus' white jacket.  His black tank top showed off his large muscles 
that had obviously been enhanced through drugs.  His black hair was cut 
in a spiked military fashion and he still wore his shades, even though 
the lighting inside wasn't that illuminating.

	"Or else he was there and tried to make us believe he wasn't.  You 
should've pulled more info out of him before you killed him.  Now we 
don't know what's going on" retorted Nebulus.  He slouched back into his 
padded chair and enabled the foot rest.  He closed his eyes, running his 
hand through his military style blond hair only to let out of a frustrated 
sigh that was meant to be heard.  He leaned back with his eyes closed as 
the other two members of the group who had been at the bar the whole 
time, came up to the table.

	"Hey kids, how's it goin'?  Did you and Davey-boy have fun 
tonight or what."  It was Zlik.  Slash hated his humor, especially when it 
wasn't in taste.  He walked closer to her side egging her on with his 
cock-eyed smirking that drove her nuts.  "Come on, tell old Zlik what 
happened baby."

	"Knock it off Zlik.  Why don't you take you and your filthy street 
'garb' somewhere where I can't smell it." darted Slash, eyeing him with 
one of those 'Don't push me looks'.  "We got enough problems without 
your nonsense."  Zlik was from the streets and probably will always be 
there as well.  He grew up there, hangs there now, and will forever have 
a name with those who have long purple hair that hangs to one side.

	"Goddamn skinny son of a .." murmured Slash.

	"Cool it children" snapped Nebulus, opening his eyes and 
furrowing his brow again.  "Jack, what do we have on the nets for the 
past few hours from Dave's area?"

	"Nothing to my knowledge.  The whole sector's been quiet since 
he got off" replied Jack in a gentlemen's voice, standing next to Nemesis.  
Actually, he stood underneath Nemesis.  He was very short and stocky, in 
fact he was getting on the fat side.  That's the problem with netrunning 
all day and all night.  Jack was the type of individual who got so hooked 
into the system that if he had his choice, he would never get out.  Unless 
of course he had to.  But that was never.  That's how he got his name, 
Jack.  Constantly jacking in and out of the nets, only to get back in as 
soon as possible.  He gambles with everything he gets into and most of 
the time, if and when rarely caught, he barely makes it out without 
being traced or ICEd.  But that's how he wanted to run his life:  on the 
edge, at least from the perception of the net.

	"Get me updated on Cryon ASAP, Jack, and make sure they're not 
screwing around with our side of the board!" demanded Nebulus.

	"Sure thing boss" replied Jack, still in his business shirt, business 
appearance, and business attitude.  Hey slowly walked away from the 
group and reached another desk a little distance away from the informal 
meeting.  He picked up the same headgear as Nebulus had and put it on, 
eventually peering off into space, or cyberspace as the case may be.

	"What the hell is that thing he's got on his head?" questioned 
Slash, a little perturbed that she hadn't been updated on the new tech 
yet.

	"It's an experimental wireless connect between your ports and a 
jack in site.  But like I said, it's only experimental, so it doesn't leave this 
room" explained Nebulus, calming down slightly.  "We stole the idea and 
some of the design from Cryon.  The rest came from industry with the 
holes filled in by Jack and his tech buddies at Nortech."

	"He's still working there?" asked Zlik, wising up a bit.  The party 
began to disperse, each individual going there own way.  "Awe screw it 
man" snobbed Zlik heading for the corridor leading to the alleyway.  The 
metal door slammed shut once he was out and the room was dead quiet 
with the exception of the echoing metallic slam of the door.  Everyone 
that wasn't jacked in was still looking at the corridor that Zlik just 
walked through.

	"When the hell is he going to get a life and stop being a street 
bum!?" complained Slash.

	"He's one of the best street informants I've ever known, Slash.  
Just get off his back" grumbled a low, direct voice.

	She turned around, looking at Nemesis who never had a lot to say.  
"Is that so.  Then why does he always dress like he's still on the streets?"

	"Because he is."  With that Nemesis grabbed his coat from the sofa 
and proceeded to follow Zlik's exit, never loosing sight of Slash.

***************

	"Don't let her get to you man, she's just bein' a bitch tonight 
cause we didn't get what we wanted from Dave" said Nemesis after 
catching up to Zlik.  His shades were still on even though it was 
approaching two in the morning.  The two of them walked for a while 
and finally made it to the noisy part of town.  The bars and joints 
stretched for a few blocks and never shut down as long as it was dark 
outside.  This was the night spot; where everyone came who was anyone, 
at four in the morning that is.

	"So what happened with the job with Dave?" asked Zlik.

	"We took him out well, but Nebulus wasn't impressed with the info 
we got from him.  I think Nebulus thinks someone's out for us.  Hell, it 
wouldn't surprise me, that's for sure."

	"At least it would make life interesting for once."

	"True."  They walked side by side down the sidewalk towards there 
favorite spot - Black Oil.  The only place on the strip that was almost 
pitch black dark inside and that served the hardest drinks, only.  It was a 
nice place.  The bar was always packed and the back rooms always full.  
It was mostly inhabited by deckers, samurai, informants or people just 
there for business.  Frankly, the bar wasn't even built to be a bar, but 
that never surfaced in conversation.

	Zlik was almost as tall as Nemesis, but a hell of a lot skinnier.  His 
tattered street clothes, long purple hair and terrible street accent set 
him apart from his companion.  A little harassment from the local girls 
and a few psychos that were missing more than a couple of brain cells 
made the trip seem normal.  The streets were cluttered with garbage and 
debris from the riots a few days ago.  Most of the street lights were out or 
on there way to go out.  Most of the cars on the streets had a few bumps 
or bruises, many having broken windows or shattered lights.  The alleys 
were filled with drunken street people sitting in the wall crevices and 
dealers making their nightly pay.  It might be the summer, but for some 
reason the night was a little cooler than normal.

	Before long, the Black Oil neon sign was a few doors down.  A 
small crowd had formed out front of the closed doors of the place with 
people just hangin' out.  A little pushing and shoving and the two got 
past the crowd of people who wanted to look cool by the bar, but didn't 
want to go in.

	Past the doors, the bar was dark as night.  Smoke filled the air and 
seemed to hover like a cloud just above people's heads.  There was just 
about enough room to walk around the place without hugging each 
other in the process.  A pool table could be spotted across the room in the 
far right corner from the foyer landing where Nemesis and Zlik stood 
side by side, each looking around for someone or something.  Most of the 
people here were dressed to kill.  The styles ranged from very slick to 
very sleazy, but all with the intent to intimidate.  The bar was centered 
in the middle of the place, raised a step above the floor to make it a little 
more formidable for stools.  It was nice, though, compared to the others 
in town.  All the walls were old fashioned wood with paintings and 
electronic art scattered around.  At least there was no graffiti on the 
inside of the joint.  Looking around produced a second floor of mostly 
wooden tables surrounding the outside walls of the place.  Round 
hanging pool lights hung from the ceiling with most of the lights either 
broken or turned off.

	Zlik started down the half flight of stairs without noting Nemesis' 
intentions for the evening.  But that was his style.  He grew up on this 
side of town, was one of the first to come to the bar when it was first 
opened, and will probably be one of those who are killed in it as well.  
Nemesis watched him slowly push his way toward the far side of the bar 
and begin talking with a few friends that normally were found here 
after midnight.  Nemesis, on the other hand, slowly made his way to the 
opposite side to watch a game of pool before going to the bar for a drink.

	"So what's new on the streets" questioned the guy slowly 
drinking a Toxic Rum next to Zlik, his long bleached hair almost 
touching the tip of the glass during each sip.

	"Depends on what side of the tracks you're from."

	"The down side."

	"Cryon is on the move again and no one knows what's going on."

	"I thought they weren't screwing around on the nets yet?  Last I 
heard, they weren't going after any company takeovers or anything" he 
said with a concerned yet questionable tone of voice, still just looking at 
his shot.

	"Their RAD just jumped and their in the market.  Nestroth's 
chasin' the rabbit so make sure the field is clear" noted Zlik.  He hated 
discussing names in company, but that was life on the streets.  "How's 
you're girl friend?"

	"Which one?" he asked in disgust.

	"Charles."

	"Watch your back.  Deckers are out tonight and it's gonna be a 
while until sex is as good as it used to be."

	"Who's spreading the disease?"

	"Mogul's back."  Spotting an old girl friend across the room, Zlik 
got up from the bar and began his way towards her, noting his friend 
with only a tap on the bar before leaving.  Information and friends are 
two different things when it comes to who's chasing who.  Anyway, most 
of the 'friends' that you make in a place like this can't be trusted further 
than the shot they drink from.

	'Mogul is back' thought Zlik on his way across the bar.  'This is 
not good.  The last time they were back proved to be a challenge in more 
ways than just survival.  Mogul was one of those groups that just looked 
for conflicts with other groups.  Nestroth normally didn't mind 
competition when going after a company or something like that, but 
when a gang gets involved with business, business gets bloody.'

	"Hey sexy!  How's it goin'!?"  yelled Zlik.

	"Well if it isn't Zlik.  I haven't seen you here for a while.  Where 
the hell you been hiddin' out lately?" replied Shiela.

	"I've been around.  You sure look awful different since we went 
out last year.  So who you datin' now babe?"  Her black leather clad body 
and curly-long, dyed black hair contrasted to her old street image of 
baggy pants and oversized shirts.  Her face was even more pale now.  Her 
appearance almost was of the dead instead of who he remembered her to 
be.

	"Nobody special.  He's right here."  She turned around and pulled 
on the shoulder of a large man standing behind her talking with a small 
bunch of guys dressed in the same black leather attire.  He turned 
around to face Zlik.  "I told you he'd be here honey" she said looking 
directly into Zlik's eyes with a devil's grin only Glasya could wear.

	"So this is the mighty Zlik of Nestroth!" he said taking a step 
closer and shoving his glass into Shiela's hand.  "Don't tell me you've 
come back for seconds with her MATE!"  He might be a little drunk, but 
he was definitely pissing Zlik off with his attitude; one of the few things 
which Zlik didn't tolerate.

	"Where the fuck did you pick him up Shiela!?  Pirates Are Us or 
Assholes Anonymous!!!?" attacked Zlik with his irate attitude aimed 
directly at Shiela.

	"Good-bye Zlik" was her only monotone reply as her grin turned 
sour and she retreated towards the bar, walking behind her man.

	"Oh, fine, walk off with a nice good-bye babe!  Hey, don't forget 
your beer belly bozo here bitch!" yelled Zlik not moving from his 
position.  His attack was still muffled by the crowd around them.  No one 
paid any attention to quarrels like that, anymore.

	Giving a daring glare in her direction, his neck was violently 
grabbed by Shiela's lover.  

	"She picked me up at Mogul, you shitty piece of street slime.  How 
do you feel about that, Dick!?"  Zlik's eyebrow's raised instantly at the 
thought of what he was in now, just in time for a double sided dagger to 
be thrust into his stomach by his adversary.  His mouth dropped open 
and his eyes shut from the pain.  His body almost being totally supported 
by the hand still clenching his neck, making his breathing more 
difficult.  The knife twisted in his side and his brow furrowed more until 
all he could do is scream out in pain.  The crowd around him began to 
notice the action, but it was too late.  His back began to arch and his 
knees started bending slowly as the life drained out of his body, staining 
his shirt, and began to form a reflective puddle on the floor underneath 
him.

	"MOGULLLLLLLLLL!!!!!!!!!!" screamed Zlik, thrusting his right 
elbow outward.  An old fashioned quick release snubnose appeared in his 
palm and directed itself towards the chest of his killer.  Four shots were 
fired before his body crumpled to the bloody wooden floor, his right arm 
sticking straight upward with the gun still resting in his palm.  He was 
soon followed by his killer to the floor.  His leather armor lined jacket 
not enough against good old Teflon II coated ammunition, bringing him 
down nearly on top of Zlik.  Their blood staining each other's body.  The 
crowd going silent momentarily to see who was involved this night 
while the bartender called the cops, then resuming with the normal 
discussions of the evening.  Another night, another death.  Pretty 
normal for nighttime in Philly, or any major city for that matter.

	Shiela slowly made her way to the entrance and existed alone, 
mingling with a few others who didn't want to be around when the cops 
showed up to collect the bodies.  Nemesis, too far away to do anything but 
watch his friend die, and hear the gunshots at the last moment, kept and 
eye on her and followed her out of the establishment.  He'd met her a few 
times before, but never really got to know her.  He never really liked 
her in the first place.  Trusted would probably be a better word.  Now he 
knew why.  Mogul on the other hand meant something, something very 
serious.  Mogul was a gang that ran a last year and tried terrorizing 
certain underground groups.  Nestroth was one of the groups that 
brought them down.  Unfortunately, they didn't wipe them out 
completely.

	Shiela began down the strip and soon turned into a known 
alleyway.  Nemesis followed, cautiously surveying his position.  He 
started into the alley, but she was already gone.  Impossible.  The alley is 
too long and he was too close to lose her that fast.  He didn't like it.  He 
didn't like it one bit.  A few more meters in and he stopped, switching his 
cybernetic retina implants from night vision to thermal infra-red 
sensing.  He walked a few more meters with his jacket loosely buttoned.  
He finally stopped completely and looked around.  As he looked up he 
caught a glimpse of part of a person who must have been peering out of 
a window from above.  More likely sighting him in, which he confirmed 
with another retina switch to ultraviolet reflective, picking up the faint 
outlines of a needler rifle.

	"Nice try, Nemesis" came a voice that echoed through the alley.  It 
was Shiela all right.  Nothing mistaking that slyish voice.  He turned 
around, obviously out of position.  Two men, however, were between him 
and the streets, and the alley behind him meant dealing with his 
airborne sniper.  His right hand slowly snaked towards his jacket.

	"Don't even think about it asshole."  The two men in front of him 
took out their weapons, pinning him in.  "You go back to Nestroth and 
tell them we're back, Nemesis.  And, by the way, give Nebulus this 
message!?"  Two needler shots were fired from above into his shoulder.  
He immediately sank to the ground and crashed into a trash bin, holding 
his 'injured' shoulder.  "You take that to Nebulus!"

	The two men in the alley put their weapons away as they made 
their way back to the streets.  Nemesis lay there for a few minutes until 
he judged the situation as relatively safe to move.  He removed the 
needles from his jacket, simulating their penetration and induced pain.  
He walked out holding his shoulder.  He walked out without his friend.  
Heading back, passed the bar, gave him only one thought: Mogul is back 
and Cryon is on the move.  What the hell is going on?




			Cool Darkness
				by Matthew Carpenter



	Chapter 3 : The Finer Things in Life...Just Got Worse

	"And here is the room where the hunter/killers will be operating 
from, General.  Each station will house one person and the collective will 
send necessary information to the GN-12 over there" pointed a research 
engineer for Cryon who was showing General Stark the first labs that 
would be used in Operation Revolt:  a joint military/government 
operation headed by members of the CIA, NSA, and USAF Electronic 
Security Command.  Behind the glassed in walls of the studio-like lab, the 
tour of the labs had come to an end for one of the leading officials in the 
implementation of the operation, as well as the leading researchers, 
programmers and engineers of Cryon and Nortech.  General Stark 
standing out by being the only one not in a normal suit with visible 
hardware and ports.

	"Very impressive, Dr. Rudenburg, very impressive." spoke 
General Stark looking at the GN-12 comp.  "Just how fast is that computer 
and will it give us instantaneous time to react if a priority is at hand?"

	"It's a 10 teraflops machine packaged in a secured housing that 
will be able to handle hundreds of users without slowing down a bit.  The 
computer has been programmed specifically to handle that type of a 
situation, should it arise.  With the latest advances made by Nortech in 
the human/computer interface field, the computer will be an extension 
of everyone working in the nets as well as off them.  The operation will 
begin as scheduled in two weeks.  You can be assured of that!" he stated 
with a grin as if he had sealed a done deal.  "If you come this way, we can 
move onto the final discussion of the networking reorder program and 
how we will integrate each level of defense as the time arises."

	The glass panels they were behind separated them from the most 
diabolical security system ever created by man.  Each station consisting 
of a 'coffin' where men would be connected into the computers and nets 
24 hours a day kept alive with a revolutionary new life support system.  
The General stood there for a last glimpse of the entire project.  His 
decorated chest rose and fell deeply with every deep breath.  'The 
teraflops computers.  The neural links.  The net connections and security 
systems.  So it all comes down to this.' the General thought to himself 
giving the place a once over, then moving on without a change of facial 
expression.  

	"So this project will enable us to monitor all of the Milnet sites 
and government linkup locations at any given time from anywhere, 
right?"

	"Exactly.  The hunter/killers will be spread out over the nets and 
gateways, constantly monitoring and tracking any conspicuous netters 
or runners as the case may be.  All the info will be processed here and 
we will be able build case files on perpetrators, or eliminate them if the 
risk is too high."

	"Sounds good to me.  We're practically fightin' a war on the nets 
as it is with all the netrunnin' that's been goin' on in the past few years.  
It's about goddamn time we got the hardware on our side to stop these 
punks" said the General.  His brow was more furrowed than before, 
remembering the numerous break-ins into his department alone over 
the past five years.  "Goddamn kids" he quietly spoke to himself, looking 
ahead with great anticipation for this project.  'Just wait until we fry 
'em' he smirked.

******************

	A few days later, a bare-chested dark-skinned bodybuilder was 
curling more weight than normal in front of a mirror at the local gym.  
A 'fake' medical bandage was taped to his left shoulder, giving him an 
incentive to pump more iron.  His biceps bulged every time the curl bar 
was lifted above waist level.  'I'm gonna kill Mogul, 18.  Kill Mogul, 19.  
Kill Mogul, 20.'  "Goddamn!" he said putting the bar back on its bench and 
flexing in front of the mirror.  He looked over himself with confidence.  
A full four hour workout finished again.  'Lookin' hot man, lookin' hot.'  
A cool sweat covered most of his unclothed body.  His spandex shorts 
noticeably wet as well.  He looked over his sculptured grayish tanned 
muscles until his gaze made it to his shades.  The dark purplish reflection 
in the mirror of his glasses spawned a frowning brow from Nemesis.  
'More muscles, more killing power!'  He picked the bar back up and 
curled another 10 reps, just to let the thought sink in, real deep, still 
counting by how many times he was going to kill Mogul.  He looked back 
at the mirror, breathing a little heavier than before.  His eyebrows now 
making a "V" shape in his forehead.  'That's it!  It's personal now, Mogul!  
You're MINE!'  

	He swiftly grabbed his bag and headed out the front of the gym 
into the warm summer afternoon.  His workout might be over, but his 
adrenaline was running high at the moment.  Flashbacks of Zlik and him 
being together for the first time.  Hitting the bars, scamming 
information, working with Nestroth.  Then the memory of the bar came 
back to him.  He saw the pain going through his friend's face.  He saw 
him stare death square in the face and then take his revenge before 
letting death take him.  And then, the only thought that entered his head 
was of Sheila.  "BITCH!"

	"Hey, Nemesis!"  A slap on the chest broke him from his day 
dreaming.  "Hey, man, you there today!?" asked Nebulus, catching him on 
his way down the street.

	"What do you want!?  I thought you never came out in daylight?" 
retaliated Nemesis.

	"Hey, calm down.  I was just coming up to see you in the gym and 
work out for a little while."

	"Then why are you in clothes that normally aren't seen outside of 
a club?"

	"OK, so I wasn't going to work out.  I was going to watch you" 
Nebulus said with a grin.  "Come on, let's get outta here.  My car's right 
over here."  They walked together towards the car, but Nemesis stopped a 
few steps away.  The whole thing was still eating him away, and Sheila 
was still in his head.

	"I don't think so; I'm really not in the mood right now, Nebulus."

	"Look, I know you're upset about what happened to Zlik, we all 
are, but there's work to do."

	"I don't care about work right now, damn it!  All I care about is 
taking Mogul down once and for all and NOW!" yelled Nemesis, becoming 
more furious by the moment.

	"Look asshole, I don't give a shit about how you feel or what you 
want to do!  There's work to do and I need you in one piece.  Now get you 
fuckin' ass in my goddamn car before I slice that rinkly stomach of 
yours open!" Nebulus retaliated pulling out a double sided rigid blade.

	The two just looked at each other for a second or two.  Finally, 
Nemesis moved towards the car, shouldering into Nebulus just to get a 
little frustration out on his way to grabbing the door.  Nebulus moved out 
of the way slightly, but ran the blade against Nemesis' stomach anyways.  
Nemesis just opened the door, loudly threw his bag in the back and 
slammed the door shut, letting his built-up anger go up in smoke.  
'Goddamn son of a bitch' he thought to himself as Nebulus got in the car 
and started driving away from the curb.

	"Didn't hurt a bit I bet, did it?" asked a frustrated Nebulus.

	"No."

	"How many layers of that shit have you put in you now...what are 
you up to four, five, twenty one or so..?" kidded Nebulus.

	Nemesis smirked.  His anger obviously starting to fade with the 
thought of his friend's humor.  "Only four.  Anymore would make it look 
unnatural.  And it's not shit, it's reinforced synthetic skin."

	"Unnatural.  You're only the one person in my life that I've ever 
seen with gray skin.  And a bodybuilder at that.  I thought you never put 
anything into your body that wouldn't help you grow muscles?"

	"It doesn't go into me; it's just sewn on the top five or so layers of 
skin."

	"Great.  A bodybuilder that has four layers of reinforced Kevlar 
Type II skin sewn into his skin so he's not only stronger than everyone 
else, he also has skin that's tougher than an alligator's."  The trip was 
silenced from then on by Nemesis' straight face and Nebulus' concern 
for what was going on with the nets.  Reality came back too quickly.  
Turning towards the west side of the city, Nemesis could tell that they 
were going to Nebulus' apartment.

	'What the fuck are we going to his house for?' Nemesis asked 
himself looking around.  The surrounding buildings, annoying traffic 
and light smog offered no answer.  Soon the apartment complex was up 
ahead.  Solar collectors sat atop the six story box shaped complex, soaking 
up as much sun from the hot day as possible.  An underground parking 
garage door swung open as the car passed the entrance into the 
driveway, allowing them access to Nebulus' traditional parking spot:  
directly opposite of the door on the far end of the garage.  Nemesis 
grabbed his bag and the two went up to the third floor apartment, 
getting in with the standard code key card.  The gray polymetal door 
swung open and the two entered the foyer.  Thick light colored carpet 
covered the floor of the spacious apartment.  Nemesis walked into the 
living room directly in front of him and looked out the full window at 
the nearby city.  'Pretty sad' he thought to himself, putting his bag down 
on a nearby sofa.  Nebulus followed and sat down, turning the TV on.

	"So what the hell are we doing here anyways?" demanded 
Nemesis, still staring out the window.

	"The others will be here soon enough.  Like I said, there's work to 
be done."

	"Then why don't you tell me just what the fuck is going on then, 
if it's so goddamn important!?" he retaliated spinning around to face 
Nebulus.  Nebulus sat there for a moment, still watching TV.  The volume 
was low enough it might as well have been off.  The spokesperson from 
ESPN was finishing a remote assignment to California on the discussion 
of the new steroids, the ones that had no physical or mental side effects.  

	"So, are you going to start taking the new steroids to help 
improve your strength?  I heard they can't hurt you at all." Nebulus said 
still watching TV.  Without receiving a reply, he turned to face Nemesis 
who was still waiting for an answer.  "All right.  Jack got word today 
from one of his friends in Nortech that said that Operation Revolt was 
scheduled to begin in two weeks."

	That hit a soft spot in Nemesis' pissed off mood.  'Two weeks.  Holy 
shit.  I didn't think they were going to be ready for at least a few more 
months.'  His mood switched from anger to passive worry, convincing 
him that sitting down was a good idea after all.  'How the fuck did they 
get that far ahead without our knowledge?'

	Nebulus went back to watching ESPN's coverage of body building 
which quickly grasped part of his companion's attention as well.  Within 
fifteen minutes, the program was nearing it's end when a message from 
the front panel sounded  "There is a visitor at the front door."  Nebulus 
got up and turned on the video monitor which vividly showed Slash and 
Jack.  

	"Who is it?" he asked anyways monotonely.

	"Open up, Nebulus." came back Slash's cool voice.

	"Lookin' good Slash."  He verified their presence with another 
window on the wall panel, displaying the thermal image of two people 
standing in the hallway outside his apartment door, taken from a sensor 
array strategically placed outside his room.  The door opened, and the two 
entered the room.

	"Don't you wish." said Slash as she walked past Nebulus in her 
civilian attire:  short heels, stockings that almost showed under a short 
summer skirt,  and a tight sleeveless top.  Jack followed her in, looking 
very concerned with the present state of affairs.  Being an employee of a 
company that his 'computer group' was about to attack and disable, put 
him in a very bad, not to mention stressful position.  The door slid shut 
behind him and locked with an advanced security lock that also included 
locking out telecom messages.

	Jack put himself in his normal office chair that sat at the near 
side of the couch, placed there just for him.  Normally it was used as a 
foot rest or end table, but Jack always sat in office chairs, no matter 
where he was.  Slash made her way to the cushy chair on the far side of 
the room that was within arms reach of Nemesis' side of the sofa.

	"I'm really sorry about Zlik, Nemesis.  I want you to know that." 
said Slash in a very sincere tone of voice.

	Nemesis gave her his thank you look and quickly moved to face 
Nebulus who was sitting back down on the sofa to address the group in 
one of their most important meetings of the year.

	"Thank you all for coming on such short notice.  I hope this 
hasn't complicated your jobs, but like I said, this is very important.  
Yesterday, Jack came to me with a very important message a friend at 
work had given to him involving Cryon's initiative, Operation Revolt.  
Jack, would you please brief the group on that matter?"

	"I received the following message from one of my contacts who 
keeps me informed on information with this project.  As you know, we 
were going after the project just for the capabilities to stay online 24 
hours a day.  But this changes things completely.  The message says:

		1-     OR to take over nets.  Hunter/killer
		group to use LSS to keep punks off nets.
		MIL/GOV//MIL/GOV/unknown-deadly     -3

	The reason why this changes everything are the hunter/killer 
groups and the involvement of the government and military.  This is one 
of the first times that the government and military have gone after 
totally securing the nets.  To begin with it will be applied to the 
government and military nets, but I think it will eventually spread to 
even the simplest network interface on the local level, purposely 
designed to keep unauthorized personnel out, period.  They are playing 
for keeps this time.  I think the answer to the question about why has 
Cryon been going after other companies and mil sites is right here as 
well.  They've been breaking into places left and right as a testing 
ground for what they can do and how effective their system is.  We've 
been watching the whole damn project run it's prototypes and beta tests 
all along.  The people that were in the tests are the ones we will be up 
against when the game begins, if this project succeeds in starting on 
time."  He ran his hand through his thinning hair.  His shirt collar was 
long unbuttoned and his tie loose.  "This puts me in one awkward 
position, but that's why I got with you guys in the first place.  This 
project will essentially shut down the nets from the outside, and I can't 
see anyway of getting around it."

	"Yea, but they can't KILL you.  I mean, all they can do is find out 
who you are and where you're getting in from.  That's old news I 
thought." attacked Slash.  She knew her way around net tech and was 
pretty up to date on the present state of it, but what she hated the most 
was not being informed on what was out there and this put a noticeable 
hitch in her tone.

	"With the new system, there's no telling what they can do.  They 
could decide not to attack you, trace you back to your deck.  From there 
they could get every bit of information on you without you knowing it.  
Set bugs.  Implant viruses.  Build cases about you.  Contact others to see if 
you have any weaknesses.  Destroy your personal file and plant a virus 
to destroy every copy of it you launch.  Who knows.  These guys are 
playing hardball and they're playing for keeps!"

	The room was completely silent with the exception of a thousand 
thoughts of concern coming from each person sitting there.

	"Well, I guess this means that Mogul is on the back burner" 
sighed Nemesis, folding his hands together in his lap.  A few grins 
appeared quickly looking to relieve the stress of the room.

	"We need a plan of attack to begin with" said Slash slouching 
back in her chair, allowing the bottoms of her stocking to show without 
concern.  Nemesis was the first to notice and the only one to stare, 
unnoticed of course.  His CRI's zoomed in on one area, trying to get a 
closer picture.  'Business is business, but pleasure is pleasure' he thought 
to himself.  He never could grasp cyberspace that well and couldn't 
concentrate on it that much since he had never jacked in before and 
probably never would.

	"Fine.  First:  Jack, you need to keep gathering as much info as 
possible from the nets and from work.  We need to know what we're 
going up against and when.  Second:  Slash, I need you to assess Cryon's 
security.  Work with your security company to get into the place and see 
what you can dig up.  Third:  Nemesis, I need you to resecure all of our 
sites, systems, apartments and personal gear.  I want to be ready for 
anything that hits us, either from Cryon or Mogul.  Also I need you to be 
our street info man.  There probably isn't much on the streets now, but I 
want to get as much of a jump on this as possible.  Also, keep a close eye 
on Mogul.  Keep them out of range, but don't overextend yourself without 
backup, and only under extreme circumstances.  Cryon takes priority 
until further notice.  Meanwhile, I will make contact with some of the 
higher ups I know and will converge all info to you all.  Keep all 
information pertaining to this thing as secret as possible.  Don't use the 
nets at all and make sure you're not being tracked!"

	The meeting soon broke up, each person going their individual 
way.  There was nothing more that really needed to be said, or could be 
said.  They needed more information and without it were dead in the 
water.  Nebulus walked back to the large window in the living room and 
looked out at the city below.  It was getting late in the afternoon, but 
work was just beginning.  'So they've finally come up with a way to shut 
us out, huh.  So it's all come to this.  And if ICE weren't enough.  Now I 
have to combat another person on the net who is playing Mr. Security 
Officer, standing between me and my objective.  That is, if they ever get 
into the nets!  That's it.  We'll have to kill the project before it even 
becomes operational!'

***************

	Five days had passed and the group was together once again, this 
time to compare information.  If nothing else, they were all more 
worried and more intense with every move they made.  Here was a 
technology and a capability so revolutionary in the field of computer 
security that it could wipe out the majority of cracking that goes on 
within any and all nets.

	The four sat around one of the tables in the back room at Hot 
Kicks, a private club owned by Nebulus on the better side of town.  It was 
an almost middle class joint, if there was a middle class any more.  If 
there was it was called surviving with a little more.  The joint was classy.  
It was where all the sophisticated people went who wanted to see live 
nude dancing and strippers that wouldn't make you vomit.  There was 
both male and female entertainment as well as artwork, decks, 
holographics, laser shows and live or holographic music.  It was a 
hangout for artsy types, social groupies, or horny people.  The room they 
were in was behind all the glitter and glamour of the place.  It was the 
business area of the joint.

	"Well, I guess I'll be the one to start things" spoke Jack, eagerly 
wanting the meeting to begin so that he could get as much of a jump on 
the project as possible.  Being the netrunner of the group, he needed as 
much prep time as possible, and the most info as well.  "The project is 
still scheduled to start on time in nine days.  The beta testing that has 
been going on over the past four months, has included over 25 
businesses, 20 military installations, and 10 government sites.  Successful 
cracks were made in all cases and successful defense routines were 
completed without problems.  The people who will be in the nets will be 
on life support for one month at a time.  They will be receiving fluids, 
muscle stimuli and other necessities while in the nets.  They will be 
connecting into the nets through a large comp that I suspect is a 
supercomputer, but have not yet confirmed.  With this type of computing 
power, they will be able to bring a lot of software into the nets with them 
and will be able to be monitored from outside, while still maintaining 
contact with the others in the nets.  ICE could never touch the killing 
power that this could produce" Jack finished with a seriously straight 
face.

	"Cryon's physical security is very tight.  My security firm is 
presently supporting ten positions within the company, none of which 
are located near this project.  Security systems and facility maps are 
located within the main system there, and should be breakable without 
much trouble, once you get past the outer systems.  I can arrange to have 
two of our special tactics team help us with the break in.  They're 
specifically trained for this sort of thing and we have no records of them 
at all."

	"Yea, but can they be trusted?" darted Jack, obviously feeling the 
pressure of breaking into a place this big, and going against an 
operation of this magnitude.

	"My people are loyal to me.  As long as we keep them from the 
truth and don't have them go all the way in, we should be ok.  In any 
case, they are expendable if problems arise.  Are there any other 
questions?" challenged Slash.  She wouldn't have come up with the idea 
if she didn't think it weren't safe, and she hated people who attacked her 
judgments.

	"All right.....Nemesis" called Nebulus, keeping the meeting in 
order.

	"All security systems and meeting places have been tested, 
verified and put on maximum alert sequences.  If anything even comes 
close to messin' with our stuff, it'll be eliminated.  The word on the street 
is nothin'.  This project is the quietest one I've ever heard of.  Nobody's 
even heard of it yet.  Mogul is still around, but they don't seem to be 
movin' anytime in the next few days.  They're mainly getting contacts 
and settin' up sites.  All personal gear has been maintained and weapon 
banks are in full, working condition.  They'll be ready when the time 
comes to jump."

	"Last but not least, the big guys will be comin' into town on the 
day the project is implemented.  Hotel reservations were made months 
ago and security teams have been assigned from the normal companies.  
I scrounged some extra cash in case we needed anything to further our 
chances of survival.  This one's gonna be the big hit for this year, that's 
for sure" said Nebulus moving to the front of his chair and putting his 
arms down on the table.

	"What is that supposed to mean?" asked Slash.

	"We are going to attack this project before it can be implemented 
and we're gonna go into Cryon to do it."

	"Are you nuts!?  There's no fuckin' way we can attack from 
within Cryon!" bitched Jack, standing up to contest the whole plan.

	"If we let them into the nets, we're dead.  They win, we loose.  
They will be more powerful than ICE ever could think of being.  You 
should know that, Jack" Nebulus retaliated disgustingly as if talking to a 
high school punk that never learned to think with an open mind.  

	'Great.  He's already starting to crack and the fun hasn't even 
begun' thought Slash looking disappointingly at Jack.

	Nebulus got up from his seat and walked over to Jack, who had 
walked away from the table to unbutton his shirt even more.  Slash and 
Nemesis looked at each other with that 'Oh, great' look, knowing each 
other couldn't wait for the action.

	Nebulus put his hands in his baggy pants pockets as he stood next 
to Jack.  "Look.  I know you're in a really bad position if anything goes 
wrong.  But you're in it with us and you know you want to go through 
with it.  Just relax and take an anti-stress pill and calm down.  I need you 
in one piece to pull this off from the inside or we're not going 
anywhere."  He walked away knowing that Jack wouldn't let him down.  
Every now and then when they did something big, Jack was the one to 
get nervous.  He was great on the nets and could crack more than most, 
but his nerves were made of shit until the actual time came to work.

	"So where's my woman, Nebulus?" asked Nemesis jokingly.

	"Julia is downstairs waitin' for ya' in the dressin' room."  

	"Julia this time, huh."  Since the meeting was essentially over, 
Nemesis decided to go play, leaving the group behind to drink or do 
whatever they wanted to.

	"How pathetic" mumbled Slash as her combative partner left the 
room.  He paid no attention to her comment, as usual.




				Cool Darkness
					by Matthew Carpenter



			Chapter 4 : Pawn to Rook 4

	"How the hell do you expect me to come up with that kind of 
security information by tomorrow morning?  There's got to be a dozen or 
more hard locks on that place, not to mention getting around ICE" 
complained Jack, trying to make Nebulus understand the tight security 
at Cryon.

	"Jack, take a chill pill.  So it'll take a few more hours than normal.  
Just get it done as soon as possible.  We need as much info as possible so 
we can pull this off."

	"And what if we can't?  Why the hell is getting this stuff off line 
so important anyways?  It's not like we're trying to protect every 
netrunner in the country."  Nebulus dropped a few tablets on the desk 
the two were sitting at.  Jack watched them rolled around on a pile of 
computer paper until they spun around and stopped toward one edge.  By 
the time Jack looked up at Nebulus, he had already walked away, 
thinking about something else.  To Nebulus, nothing was impossible.  It 
was just a matter of coming up the right plan of attack.

	"Shit" mumbled Jack to himself, picking up the two pills.  
'Probably only iron tablets' he thought putting them in his mouth and 
downing them with the Coke sitting on his desk.  'Everything must be 
duplicated.  All security systems must be located and analyzed.  Personnel 
and schedules must be analyzed.  What a fuckin' bitch!'  He jacked back 
into Cryon gathering the last bit of information that was necessary to 
invade as he always called it.

	A few hours later, the group was together once again for last 
checks on the plan of attack.  The meeting place was the same warehouse 
that Nemesis and Slash had gone to after taking out Dave.  Kind of ironic 
since it is usually a place to go after the fact.  It quaintly went along with 
Nebulus' ego, though.  Good for dealing in the black markets; bad for 
dealing with friends.  But then again, they all did live on the edge just 
for that rush of adrenaline.  For Nemesis, that was his drug of choice.

	"So are we gonna go in and tear this place up or what" Nemesis 
said loudly sitting down at the large meeting table that was probably 
designed to be a stretch dining room table.  It had been refinished and 
had a monitor array placed into it so that it took up most of the table face.  
He placed his combat boots up on the table and faced the head of the table 
where Nebulus sat.

	"Pig" joked Slash, sitting across from him.

	"So who are your friends, Slash?" asked Nemesis, gathering a 
straight face, ready for business.

	Slash turned to her right where one of her two 'friends' were 
seated.  He was dressed in almost all black leather, with a black hair cut 
resembling Nemesis' with a gold earring to top it off with style.  "This is 
Aberdon.  And she is Donna" pointed Slash, looking at her other friend 
who was sitting next to Nemesis who noted her long stocking-clad legs.  
Her miniskirt and skimpy top left little to the imagination and much to 
be desired, at least as far as Nemesis was concerned, who was becoming 
aroused as his eyes caressed her legs very slowly.

	"And what do you do for a living" he smirked eyeing her over his 
shoulder, getting as much of a lookover as he could get away with.

	"Looks like I'll be coverin' your ass macho man" she replied with 
a nasty tone of voice, never letting her intimidating facial expression 
change.

	He laughed.  He laughed sarcastically loud.  "So where do we stand 
on info?" he said dropping his bullshit like a mercury weight.

	"We've got most of the blueprints for the place in question 
including security and surveillance systems, piping and electrical, and 
nets.  Security schedules are being analyzed by the comps still and tap in 
sites are being assessed as to hard connects" came back Jack who sat at 
the other head of the table.  He touched the table screen a few times and 
a general blueprint of the main floor and grounds came into view.  "This 
is the general layout of the place, he said adding mini windows of the 
basement levels.  The target site is on the absolute bottom floor of the 
building, and it's pretty heavily guarded and secured.  It's going to take a 
lot to get to it" he said with a little worry.  He was getting used to the 
situation and finally excited about the job, but still slightly intimidated 
with the size of the operation.  It was the largest job he'd ever done and it 
was one of the few that involved both people on the nets and in the 
physical objective site.

	"Piece of cake" confidently spoke up Aberdon.

	"Yea?  So how would you attack it!?" attacked Slash.  Nebulus sunk 
a little deeper in his chair, awaiting this test.

	"Once the electronics are secure, a team will go in the rear 
security zone by entering this loading zone, here" he said pointed to a 
grid on the monitor.  "From there, one of us will take over that physical 
security site to control the area.  From there, whoever's runnin' will lead 
the group through checkpoints by disarming systems and allowing them 
to enter secured sectors.  Any guards can be removed by our new 
security guard and diverted temporarily.  Then it's just a matter of 
pullin' things together.  Piece of cake."

	"Not bad...not bad" spoke Nebulus, sitting back up in his chair.  
"Almost like we had talked about earlier."  Putting his elbows on the 
table, he glanced over the prints one more time.  The room was silent.  
All eyes were on Nebulus since he had the final say on the plan.  He stood 
up and took off his jacket, placing it on the back of the chair.

	"But it won't work.  The security layout would never get you past 
the main gate.  Cryon doesn't accept night deliveries.  No one goes in or 
out after dark, period" said Jack, standing his ground against a plan as 
simple as that.  "So the question is, how do we get to the dock without 
being noticed at all."

	"Sewer system.  It's the oldest trick in the book, but I bet you it 
would work" said Nemesis.

	"Don't be stupid.  A company like that isn't dumb enough to leave 
their pipes clear" snapped Slash, expecting more from an experienced 
front man.

	"Yea, but all the outside pipes aren't connected to the inside pipes.  
They're all for rain, not sewage.  Look.  There's not one connection from 
the building pipes to the outside pipes.  In fact, it looks like all the inner 
pipes go down to the basement and out the bottom of the structure 
through smaller pipes into an underground piping system I would guess.  
There's a man hole near the docks that I bet connects to the city sewers" 
pondered Jack, getting more intrigued with the possibilities of actually 
pulling this stunt off.

	"Check it out.  Make sure they're clean and that the pipes are 
large enough for men with equipment to get through.  If it is, we'll go 
with it.  I had a similar idea to the one proposed.  I'll pose as a guard and 
help the team get through each level of security.  Nemesis, get me a wish 
list of equipment to get the job done.  Then you and Aberdon get the stuff 
ready.  Slash, you and Donna look over every micron of this plan and 
make sure it works.  Make detailed notes on everything we will need to 
know about this place.  Jack, continue working on info and breaking 
systems.  Also, get the ROMS ready to write to with the info Slash gives 
you.  Meanwhile, I'll get some party favors.  Aberdon and Donna, you are 
staying with us until this is over, understand!"  commanded Nebulus.  
This was it.  If there were any questions, now was the time to bring it up.  
Once the plan was set, it was set.  There were no objections.

	August 21.  Friday, early morning.  The humid air hung stagnate 
outside the metal door of a warehouse in the shipping district.  Launch 
Site 13 as it was called.  All missions were started here.  This one was just 
bigger than most.  Usually, it was mainly netrunning to get information.  
This time it involved flesh and blood almost more than fiber optic cables.  
Nemesis stood outside the door waiting for the rest to arrive.  He looked at 
his watch.  '3:49.  One minute to go' he thought.  A lone docking light far 
away painted a soft, white brush stroke of light across his bare chest and 
the warehouse behind him.  'Forty seconds to go.'

	The dull hum of a van came from around the far side of the 
warehouse, moving slowly along the gravel drive.  The headlights were 
turned off as the garage size door of the warehouse began to open, 
spilling an ambient light onto the gravel.  Nemesis opened the personnel 
door behind him and walked through closing it behind him and locking 
it.  The black beaten up van crept past the open garage to turn around 
and enter backwards.  The garage door began to close as Nemesis walked 
up to the back of the van and opened the doors with a sharp creaking.  
The gang was here.  

	"Right on time" he said.

	"Time to party" said Slash being the first to get out of the crowded 
van.  Everyone in the back were sitting on A3 cases that were unloaded 
first by Nemesis and Aberdon.  Stacking them sideways to each other, 
Nebulus brought the pass card up, giving the privilege to Donna who 
aggressively ran it through the bar reader of the first one she came to.  
The green light on the handle block went on and an internal lock 
disengaged with a soft pop.  She opened it up and everyone looked in.

	"My, my, aren't we gonna have fun tonight" glowed Slash looking 
at the case full of explosives.  

	"C4-type II, IRAPM's, concussion bombs, hand grenades, 
hey....where's my grenade launcher?" joked Nemesis looking at Nebulus.

	"Look in case two.  Each one of you has a personal case that is 
openable with that card.  Everything you need is in there.  Merry 
Christmas kids."

	"How much did this cost you anyways?" asked Slash with a grin.

	"After I told them why we were going in, they practically gave it 
to me just to secure their other investments.  To answer your question, 
no you can't keep it" he replied with a grin that stretched from ear to 
ear.

	The transformation began.  Everyone began getting their clothes 
on and their body armor secured.  All of the smiles had left by the time 
4:00 AM rolled around.  Weapons were checked and rechecked.  
Ammunition and explosives were properly attached and weapons slung.  
Jack had already disappeared into the basement of the place; a secret 
room under the floor where the master comps were located.  The comps 
sucked power directly from the power station that was not more than a 
quarter mile away.  That way the general power loss could be attributed 
to humidity or any other stupid, unexplainable phenomenon.

	"On line in one minute!" yelled Nebulus from his makeup case.  
Everyone was already ready, checking each other over.  Nebulus jacked 
in quickly checking on Jack's status.

	"On line!"

	The four got side by side.  The seriousness and concentration 
hung in the air almost as thick as the humidity.  Beads of sweat had 
formed on every one's forehead.  Foot steps were heard from the far side 
of the warehouse and Jack soon appeared out of the homemade wooden 
office, heading towards the group.  

	"Are you ready?" questioned Nebulus.

	"Comps are set.  Once you get in, you'll have less than 10 minutes 
to complete the job, which in this case is plenty of time.  One minute to 
secure the desk.  Two minutes to get to subbasement 4.  One minute for 
diversions and gaining access.  Three minutes for setting the bombs and 
getting out.  That leaves you with one minute to blow the place and two to 
get out" said Jack.

	"And that's worse case scenario, right?" asked Nebulus, hinting 
that Jack was underestimating their abilities.

	"Yeah.  In reality, you'll probably do it in half that time, so just 
keep me informed of where you are and everything will go OK.  I'll be 
able to track you anyways, so don't worry too much."

	"All right.  See you in a few then."

	"Good luck, and if everything goes wrong, I'll just blow the net if 
I can.  That way, any system assignment will be destroyed."

	"Good deal.  Lets get going" said Nebulus looking back at his 
group.  Dressed in solid black from head to toe stood the attack team.  
Expanded honeycomb titanium armor plated Spectra 3000 body armor 
hugged every curve of their bodies, protecting them from most 
firepower out today.  Explosives and equipment was strategically secured 
to the armor for quick, but easy use.  After a quick checkover, they took 
their seats in the back of the van with Nebulus navigating and Donna 
driving.  It took twenty minutes to get there.  The corporation had a 
large complex just outside of city limits.  An old apartment complex had 
been renovated and made into an employees park which housed 
thousands of people.  The six story concrete apartments stood above a not 
so beautiful street that had it's fair share of crime, vandalism and street 
gangs.  The van was parked in an alley just out of site of the complex.

	"Comms on.  Mic check" said Nemesis. Everyone donned their 
small headset/mic.  Nebulus had a lapel mike with a single ear speaker 
that had been placed under the fake skin of his disguise that finished the 
security officer uniform he wore under his wet suit.

	"One."  "Two."  "Three."  "Four."  "Five." the group replied in order.

	"Sounding good everyone.  Jack, check in" came back Nebulus.

	The line was dead for a second.  "God here.  RYLAC."

	"How can he hear us?" asked Donna looking over at Nebulus.

	"He wrote a program to interface his deck with a comm system.  It 
shows up as a two-way speaker in his environment.  Sync watches on 
4:56 on five, four, three, two, one, mark."  Watches were synced.  
"Injection time people."  Each person, including Nemesis, took out a small 
packet that contained three vials with needles.  Nemesis took out the first 
vial which contained a clear liquid and injected himself with the 
adrenalizer, designed as a short term super steroid with little side effects.  
The first needle was placed back and the second vial was injected in the 
same area of the arm.  This one was a sense and reflex enhancer 
designed by the military.  It would give them better combat reflexes 
when they needed it.  This was followed by a third injection of a pain 
killer.  It was designed to not activate until a large amount of pain was 
inflicted, then it just temporarily deadened the area's nerve system.  
Designer drugs, designed for combat.  Perfect for terrorist raids.

	"5:00.  Time to go people" said Nebulus fastening his wet suit shut.  
Face masks were put on, covering everything but their eyes, and 
equipment and weapons were gathered.  The five exited the van silently 
and moved over the man hole located a few feet from the van.  A quick 
jimmy with a bar and the lid slid over with a low screech.  A quick look 
around and Nebulus was the first in, followed by the two newbees as 
Nemesis viewed it.  

	"I hope we can trust these two!" firmly whispered Nemesis to 
Slash, who gave him her look of approval before jumping in.  Within 
seconds the whole team was in the sewer system.  Pipes lined the old 
concrete and stone walls.  The water level was only thigh deep so it didn't 
prove to be very cumbersome.  

	"You checked this place out OK, right 3?" asked Nebulus over the 
comm.

	"Two gates were cleared.  Everything is a go."

	Night vision glasses allowed easy travel through the system for 
the first fifty or so feet until voices were heard from behind.  Everyone 
stopped.  Aberdon, who was trailing, turned around, crouching to the 
water level.  It sounded like kids.  Then it was as two street punks stuck 
their heads down into the sewers looking for the vanished group of 
strangers.  One reached a hand down below his head, visibly carrying a 
flash light.  Before he tuned it on, two silent needler shots were fired and 
the bodies of two dead kids splashed into the water below, creating a little 
wake that was eventually felt by the assassin.

	"Too bad" said Nemesis leading the group once again through the 
small cavern.  "Let's go."  They traveled through the sewers with very 
little trouble.  The tunnels were relatively flat and the footing was still 
firm due to the recent construction of Cryon some 10 years ago.  Nemesis' 
night vision led them on until the man hole cover was reached near the 
loading docks of the company.  "God.  How does the weather look?" asked 
Nebulus, who had unzipped the top part of his suit after reaching the 
ladder which led to the surface.

	Jack had been in the net for some time now, checking on 
programs, root operations, and watching out for ICE.  "Security checking 
will be done in one minute" came back Jack.

	'One minute.  Come on.  Hurry up' thought Nemesis, quite eager to 
get this job started.  The adrenalizer was beginning to take effect.  
Watches were being checked until the second before the security 
program checker was finished, exactly 5:10 AM.

	"Go" said Jack.  Nebulus had already shed his wet suit and Nemesis 
had slid the man hole cover out of the way while being covered by 
Donna.  Nebulus was the first out, quickly running up to the docking 
door.  He was quickly followed by the rest of the group who crouched by 
the sides of the door, waiting for Nemesis to put the cover back on.  He 
finished and regrouped with the team who had taken off their glasses to 
allow their eyes to adjust to the indoor light emanating from the door.  
Nebulus entered.  He quickly walked down the hallway and turned left 
towards the security desk that monitored that side of the complex.  The 
security guard at the desk came into view and stood up as he approached 
the desk.

	"Who are you and what are you doing in this section of the 
building?" the guard asked in a not so calm tone of voice.  Obviously the 
security had been upgraded for Operation Revolt.

	Nebulus walked around so that he was next to the guard.  "We've 
got a problem in section 5" he replied bringing his arm from behind his 
back.  He thrust his hand forward into the guards throat, knocking him 
out with a stunner.  The guard shakingly fell to the floor and was kicked 
under the desk.  TV monitors lined the panel in front of him that had 
four jack in sites.  

	"God this is one.  Secure all personnel sensors and override all 
subsystems in this section to me" spoke Nebulus outloud into his comm 
mic.  

		Jack looked down onto the gaming board on the 
	table in front of him.  An elaborate table top created like 
	an old model train scene had been transformed into a 
	World War II battlefield.  Moving armies in Eastern Europe 
	moved on the forest-like layout depicting the different 
	programs going on.  He immediately spotted the correct 
	security program that monitored the security personnel's 
	heart rate from individual sensors mounted on their 
	watch bands.  He touched his finger to a spot near the 
	army foot soldier representing the algorithm and blinked 
	into the battlefield in front of the corporal with his 
	superuser privileges and general's uniform.  He 	
	immediately attacked the young soldier with his bayonet-
	tipped M1 rifle and fought him down to the ground where 
	he thrust the nine inch bayonet blade into the soldiers 
	chest, terminating the program's operation.  He returned 
	to his chair in front of the table again, this time wearing 
	a replica of Patton's uniform.  "Done" was his reply to 
	Nebulus.

	"Team in" ordered Nebulus who took control of the video cameras, 
freezing them onto walls.  He jumped into cyberspace with his God given 
superuser access to check for personnel in the area.  A map of the floor 
came up with personnel locations and details.  He jumped out, routing the 
ground floor and the first three basements to the monitors in front of 
him.  

	The team quickly arrived, hauling their over-and-under 
weapons, and party favors with them.  A quick look at the monitors and 
Nemesis was off first seeking the entrance to the elevators.  Slash took 
off after him, followed by the two others right behind.  The corridors 
were lightly painted and had industrial carpet lining most of the halls.  
A few more turns through the halls and the group came to a halt behind 
a wall, separating them from the two security officers stationed at the 
elevator.

	"One.  Problem at elevator" whispered Nemesis into his mic.

	"Security at elevator 4, sector 6g : move promptly to sector 5g and 
report back in to gate on arrival" announced Nebulus, speaking into the 
security's comm.  The guards looked at each other for a moment, 
questioning the command from their security base.

	"Request secure ID verification" came back one of the guards.

	"ID hold out 764421 confirm" replied Nebulus, reading the code 
from one of the monitors.  The guard motioned to his partner and the two 
walked off towards sector 5g, watching the offices as they went.  As they 
moved out of site, the lights indicating that the elevator was moving 
down turned on.  The group stayed still.

	"One.  Someone's on the..." spoke Slash.

	"Team.  Backtrack to stairs.  Take first flight down and move 
towards sector 2."  Donna spun around and headed back first, frantically 
leading the group.  If they were caught now, the show would be over 
right then.  The stairs soon appeared in a side corridor and were entered.   
The heavy fire-proof door was shut with a soft thud and Slash was the 
first to go down the concrete stairs.  The walls were solid white and were 
dimly lit by night security lights.  

	The door to the first subbasement was reached and opened.  Slash 
peered around and saw no one.  The walls were only four feet tall in this 
sector.  Offices were separated by a few grids of these as far as she could 
tell by the dim light.  Shadows snaked down the halls, carving light into 
odd shapes and strokes by the bookcases and supporting pillars.  The 
team entered the floor and proceeded right along the hallway.  

	"No guards until the elevator" spoke Nebulus into his comm.  The 
team hugged the right wall, silently treading down the hallway, 
stopping every twenty feet to check to make sure no guards were 
walking rounds within the offices.  Just because the security monitors 
didn't show any guards, there was no absolute guarantee.

	Sector 2 was finally reached.  Nemesis looked at his watch.  
5:11:43.  Just a bit behind schedule, but nothing significant enough to 
worry about.

	"Let's take the stairs from now on" whispered Donna.  "That way, 
they can't track us."

	"Forget it.  The elevator's right nearby" darted Nemesis 
continuing on in the general direction of the elevator.  'Who the fuck 
does she think she is!  This is my plan and my attack.  She's just along for 
the ride!'  They reached the corner of the hallway in front of the 
elevator.

	"Watch out!  There's..." trailed Nebulus.

	"One.  What's it like?" asked Nemesis, itching to get into a fight 
right about now.

	"Hold it right there!  Don't move!" yelled a guard from behind the 
group.  They slowly turned around as two more guards came from the 
elevator area.  They all had on armored vests and carried high caliber 
handguns, all pointed at the group.  "Sidney, call into base and notify 
them to send more people!" commanded the first guard, still pointing his 
gun at Slash.  "Drop it now!"

	Nemesis faced the two guards that had come from the elevator and 
slowly started to pivot around towards Aberdon who was right behind 
him.  Slash and Donna began to put their weapons on the ground, 
crouching in anticipation.

	"Base, this is" spoke a guard into his comm.

	"Now!" yelled Nemesis, laying down a spray of needlers at the two 
guards in front of him.  Aberdon spun around in Slash's direction 
cutting the first guard to pieces with an array of silenced hard 
ammunition.  Three guards now lay dead on the floor, their blood 
staining the carpet underneath them.

	"I told you we needed armor piercers" spoke Nemesis at Aberdon.  
"Anything less, wouldn't have killed them."

	"Too bad for standard armor vests.  Next time, wear something 
better than that" scoffed Slash grinning over the dead bodies.

	"Team, what's up?" asked Nebulus over the comm.

	"Thanks for the warning, one.  We just waxed three of 'em" 
replied Nemesis, dragging one into an office room.  The other two were 
placed under the desks in one of the nearby offices as well in hope of 
temporarily concealing their presence.

	The elevator door was opened and the group entered, pressing the 
button for subbasement 4 on the panel.  The doors shut and the elevator 
began to move down.

	"Guards in sector 2DD, report to sector 4DD immediately" spoke 
Nemesis into the security comm.  He looked back at the monitors, 
bringing up the bottom two levels.  'More guards at the key points.  More 
security blockades to bypass.  Shit.  Guards are moving in on the elevator 
in sector 2DD.'

	  "One, this is God.  Security ID failed.  They won't listen to you 
now.  Presently blocking communications to other sectors."

	"What the hell happened" asked Nebulus getting quite pissed by 
now that the plan was getting fucked up.

	"The security is tighter than I thought.  Out."

	The elevator stopped, but it wasn't at subbasement 4.  The team 
looked around and at the panel, trying to find out what was wrong.  
"Team, this is God.  Break out of the top hatch and find another way back 
into the building.  Security is on to you."

	"Shit!" yelled Nemesis very mad that the plan had failed.

	"We're still in so don't fuck up!" yelled Slash.	

	"Everybody, get back!" yelled Aberdon, pushing the group to the 
opposing side of the elevator from the doors.  He aimed his grenade 
launcher from under his gun, and fired at the floor, just under the doors.  

	"NO!!!!" yelled Slash.  Before she could do anything about it, the 
grenade impacted on the floor and exploded filling the cabin with fire, 
smoke and a shock wave that threw everyone to the floor.  The far side of 
the floor blew out destroying the lower part of the doors as well.  Slowly, 
Slash looked up to view the damage, her ears were ringing from the 
blast.  Black smoke filled the cabin allowing almost no visibility.  

	"Two.  What the hell can you see?" she asked Nemesis, pulling him 
to sit up.

	He switched his eyes to infra-red and then to ultraviolet, trying 
to get a better picture of the cabin.  "The floor's about half gone and the 
doors are severely damaged."  The cabin swayed a little in the elevator 
shaft as the team began to regain itself.

	"One this is three.  How the hell do we get out of here!" screamed 
Slash into her comm.  The earphone just buzzed; the diaphragm 
completely shredded from the shock wave.  "One this is three, come in."  
Nothing.  "Shit!  We're cut off!  Why the fuck did you blow the elevator 
like that you moron!?  You killed the goddamn comms!" she yelled 
throwing her comm to the ground.

	"Wait.  Elevator ladder.  Come on" said Nemesis venturing into the 
grayish-black smoke, his mask temporarily giving him a filter to breath 
through.  His adrenaline pushing him onward, Nemesis crouched near 
the hole and reached out for the rung of the ladder nearest to him.

	"God, this is one.  Secure fire alarms and all security sectors not 
in this area.  I want my team to be shut off from everyone else.  We've 
lost communications with them."  

		Jack stood up from his playing board and 
	proceeded to another one :  another level of security.  He 
	sat down at the second board dressed in a Civil War 
	General's uniform.  The gold braids from his blue epaulets 
	dangled near the surface as he closely looked over the 
	terrain.  He found where he wanted to be and placed his 
	finger at the spot only to appear there instantly.  

		He stood in the Union Army's camp under overcast 
	skies looking around for the program he wanted to kill.  
	"Young man, come here!" he yelled in a northern accent 
	at one of the messenger boys.

		"Yes sir" the boy said breathing hard from 
	carrying messages as he stood at attention in front of 
	General Jack.  His weathered uniform and tattered pants 
	could hardly be classified as a uniform, but yet it worked 
	well with his position.

		"Where can I find the lad who's carryin' the 
	message about the fire?"

		"That'd be me, sir.  I'm sorry I haven't gotten it out 
	yet, but they blocked my normal way out and I can't get 
	by."

		"Why don't you give the message to me and I'll 
	make sure that it gets out, son" he said holding his gloved 
	hand outward to the young boy.

		"But sir, I.."

		"Now, son!" he commanded, lowering his voice to a 
	thunderous growl.

		"Yes sir." he replied giving Jack the message.  He 
	looked confused with the order, but was not about to 
	disobey a general.

		"Now git goin' kid."  The boy turned slowly around 
	and then started to walk off looking for another problem 
	to report.  Then he collapsed about ten feet from Jack as 
	his head exploded from the .50 caliber flint lock pistol ball 
	that pierced the back of his head.  No one paid attention as 
	they were not programmed to monitor his operation.  He 
	landed face first into the muddy ground as Jack put the 
	gun back in it's holster at his side and blinked out of the 
	board, leaving the message to be erased.

	Nebulus had yet to be nervous, but he wasn't exactly calm 
anymore as he found the remote sensing information and popped it up 
on the screen of one of his monitors.  After a little searching he changed 
the monitors to display the motion sensor and thermal sensor 
information from the different floors.  'Elevator shaft.  What the fuck 
are they doing in a goddamn elevator shaft?' he thought to himself.

	"Hold it right there, mister!" yelled a guard from behind Nebulus.  
"Don't move, don't even breathe!"  The guard and his two counterparts 
slowly walked around, surrounding him at the guard desk.  "Do you 
really think we were that stupid!?" asked the guard.

	"Who the hell are you and what are you doing in my sector?" 
confronted Nebulus, unfamiliar with the uniforms.  The guards were 
decked out in military-style commando garb, carrying heavy caliber 
rifles and explosives.

	"We're the other half of the security that you didn't take into 
consideration in your plan.  Now shut up!"

	"Hey!  There is no other side of security that I don't know about!  
Now put those guns down before I notify security and make this a big 
mess!" ordered Nebulus, standing up to face the leader of the group who 
stood on the other side of the security desk across from him.  'Shit.  
Heavy bore weapons, needlers, grenades and explosives.  They really are 
military.  Lieutenant DeGrace.  Oh, shit...' he thought to himself as his 
eyes looked down to the ground in front of his adversaries' boots.  A 
single hand stuck out underneath the desk.

	"Mistake number one, asshole.  Now sit down" said Lieutenant 
DeGrace.  He slowly gripped the arms of the chair and sat down, hoping 
that the commandos wouldn't take notice of what was on the monitors 
yet.  'Come on Jack.  Call me.  Call me.'

	"One this is God."

	"One is dead" was his only reply.  The monitors blinked out and 
Nebulus' comm went dead as one of the commando's behind him grabbed 
him by the throat and forced him to the ground backwards, shoving a 
needler into his throat as his head firmly hit the floor.

	"Your body armor won't protect you from this, now will it" 
sneered the commando, living for the fight.  Nebulus just laughed, and 
continued to laugh sarcastically until he was silenced with the butt of a 
gun against his head.

	"The hunt is on" spoke the Lieutenant into his comm.

		"Damn.  Now what the fuck am I supposed to do?" 
	Jack talked to himself in the net, surrounded by the 
	playing fields and game boards of the blue lit room.  "Wait.  
	Who took him out?"  He moved from board to board 
	checking all the different systems that were running, 
	personnel marks, timelines and on.  With a single 
	thought, twenty more boards came into play on the 
	ceiling above his head.  It was just like the feet of the 
	tables were nailed to the ceiling.  "Ah, I love tesseracts!" 
	Jack announced with a smile as he changed perspective 
	and jumped onto the ceiling to view the new playing 
	fields :  thermal and motion sensors of every floor in their 
	sector.  "Time for some fun!"

	By now the team had climbed down the elevator shaft ladder to 
within sight of the fourth subbasement.    Nemesis lead the way down 
with Donna, Slash and Aberdon following closely behind.  Their weapons 
slung and both hands holding onto the ladder, Nemesis pondered what an 
easy target they would be if anyone would open one of the doors and find 
them there.

	"Team this is God...God....God..." echoed one of the speakers in the 
shaft.  Slash looked around, trying to find the source without any luck.  

	"God, where are you!" Slash yelled, clinging onto the ladder, not 
allowing herself to look down.

	"I can't hear you, but I know where you are.  Keep going and 
hurry up.  One is dead so get out as soon as possible."

	"Shit!" screamed Slash.  The reality of the challenge was at hand.  
'Have we come this far only to be finished off.  Goddamn it.  I knew it was 
too big!' she thought to herself, as they descended closer to the elevator 
door.

	They reached subbasement 4 in no time and stopped to gather 
their weapons for an assault.  "Guys, we're one minute behind schedule.  
Since Nebulus is out, I say we just take out everything in our way and get 
out in the same manner" Nemesis said, looking back up the ladder.  'Nice 
ass, Donna.  We'll have to fuck when we get out of here.'

	"Let's do it!" snarled Slash.  'Pay back time.  Now the fun begins.'

	As the team climbed away from the door, Nemesis pulled out a 
magnetic explosive and secured it to the doors, sliding down the ladder in 
time for the doors to be completely destroyed.  Aberdon was the first into 
the hall.  The doors were shredded onto the floor nearby and the bodies 
of two guards lay among the scattered debris.  A quick look around and 
the shielded doors were closing quickly, locking the area out due to the 
explosion.  The team reassembled in the hall.

	"Team, this is God.  I can talk you through to the strike zone.  Go 
forward to the first door and I'll open it!" he ordered.  The team took off.  
Jack looked onto the master board for the sector, viewing what was going 
on.  "Enemy on other side, door opening now!" he yelled into the 
microphone next to him on the table.  The team crouched next to the 
walls as the door slid open.  Four guards were waiting just like Jack had 
said, and were soon disposed of by a sneak attack of needlers and hard 
ammo as the door opened.  They ran ahead down the hall, now lit by 
security lights.  The concrete walls and hard metal doors concealed labs 
and computer rooms by the dozens as they continued down the straight, 
tiled hallway.

	"Six guards commin' from the right hallway!" yelled Jack.  
Nemesis and the team slowed down and slid next to the facing wall of the 
hallway.  "Shutting blockade" said Jack as the solid metal shielding door 
fell into place, locking the guards out of range.  The group continued on.  

	Running towards the next intersection, Nemesis veered towards 
the left hallway.  They turned into the hallway, only to be stopped by a 
solid door, again.  Slash and Donna ran back a few steps, watching their 
backs.

	"God, we got a door" yelled Nemesis, knowing that he wouldn't be 
heard anyways.  

	"Incoming!" yelled Slash as a squad of commandos came down the 
hallway in full force.  Donna opened up and let out a spray of hard 
ammo, hitting a few, but having little effect.

	"Shit!  They're armored!" she yelled as the two men got in 
position.  Scraping fire bounced off the walls around Donna as she fell to 
the ground, trying to get out of the way of the action.

	"Now!" yelled Aberdon.  He and Nemesis ducked around the corner 
with their weapons, laying down fire.  The commandos taking cover 
against some of the walls that led into other hallways began putting 
down another layer of ammo at the two.  Donna jumped out a little to 
thrown down a flash mine.  She was nicked by two rounds in the chest 
and fell backward just as the mine exploded, sending up a high intensity 
flash explosion.  Slash jumped out just as it went off and fired two mini-
grenades which impacted directly above the cowering attackers.  
Aberdon and Nemesis took off down the hallway after the commando 
position and engaged themselves in the fight by firing at the 
commandos at point blank range.  Taking a few hits each, they pressed 
through the group until they were out of ammunition.  The smoke from 
the grenades had cleared and there were only a few more left.  Nemesis 
picked up the nearest one and slammed his fist into his face, crushing 
every bone from the impact.  The commando grabbed Nemesis' arm just 
as he was thrown into the wall behind him and forgotten about as 
Nemesis' attacked his next victim.  Soon the floor was littered with 
bloodied camouflage, their broken armor not strong enough against 
specialized armor piercing rounds.  Slash and Donna joined the two men 
in the middle of the battlefield.

	"Now this is what I call a fight!" yelled Nemesis allowing his 
adrenalizer to get the most of him.  

	"Military commandos.  Looks like we underestimated Cryon a little 
bit.  Let's move" said Slash, leading the team back to the door.  Reloads 
and armor checks were made.  Scrape marks in her armor were only left 
in Donna's chest where she was hit.

	"5:14:39" said Nemesis.

	"Team, God here.  Door opening in 2 seconds."

	"It's about goddamn time" hissed Aberdon.  The door slid upward 
surprising the group who was ready for anything now.  Another squad 
of commandos were lying on the ground, as if they had collapsed.  

	"Nerve gas is great isn't it" came Jack's voice over the speakers.

	"That boy's crazy" blurted Slash.  They relaxed their weapons 
enough to start running down the hallway towards the last blockade.  

	Jack watched intently at the movement of the team from within 
the computers.  "OK.  Alarms deactivated.  Explosives deactivated.  
Communications deactivated" he spoke to himself.  He constantly went 
over the area again and again in a split seconds making sure that 
nothing would go wrong once the team was in place.

	The last blockade was passed without any problems.  Labs with 
built in windows now lined the concrete substructure.  The halls were 
relatively dark, but shadows from the security night lights lined the 
walls.  

	"The lab should be up around the next corner" cautiously spoke 
Slash to Nemesis who was running side by side with her in the wide 
corridors.  Weapons pointed forward, they slowed to a brisk walk to 
within inches of the intersection that led to the target site.  'There's got 
to be a squad here' repeated Nemesis in his head.  'Come on, let's go, let's 
go!' anxiously thought Slash, ready to get the job over with.

	"Intruder is using armor piercers.  Stop them at all costs.  It's up 
to you, McGletspy" Lieutenant DeGrace's voice came over the military 
comm to the guards posted out front of the labs for Project Revolt.

	'Time to start the show' thought Nemesis to himself.  He pointed to 
his eyes while holding a flash mine in his fingers.  Everyone 
understood.  They took their positions around each other, ready for 
attack as Nemesis slid the flash mine smoothly across the floor in the 
direction of the target.  A second later, Nemesis' polarized CRI's viewed 
the four guards decked out in armored gear and heavy bore weapons as 
the flash mine went off, not too far from their position in front of the 
metal lab door.  Heavily armored in urban camouflage, Kevlar II body 
armor and carrying anti-terrorist attack gear, the four commandos 
opened fire immediately after the flash dimmed.  Their anti-radiation 
goggles protecting them from the burn of the mine allowed their 
weapons to pinpoint Nemesis' head in their sites, only to miss by his fast 
reflexes.

	"Four in armor!" yelled Nemesis over his shoulder while bringing 
his gun up for an assault.  The barrage silenced for a millisecond.  

	"Get back!" screamed Slash, pulling Donna with her.  A 
minigrenade exploded on the corner wall and was followed by three 
more that left more shrapnel than damaged concrete.

	"Hold this" said Aberdon shedding his equipment pack, 
containing some of the explosives.  "Let's do it!" he yelled, throwing two 
grenades into the hallway.  Right after impact, he and Nemesis began 
the attack by charging into the intersecting hallway to face the 
commandos head on.   Spraying needlers and hard ammo, the firing line 
pressed forward towards the commandos.  Without time to react from the 
grenade, the commandos began taking damage as the onslaught 
continued on.  Their armor being torn away from the ammunition, the 
guards soon fell to the ground without an escape route.  A quick release 
from one of the commandos launched a minigrenade at the line.  Moving 
out of its way, Aberdon and Nemesis lost position as the grenade exploded 
behind them.  Unsatisfied, however, Nemesis took control by directly 
attacking one of the commandos in close combat.  Weakened from the 
fire fight, the commando fought to gain balance as Nemesis picked him 
up off the ground by the throat, throwing his gun to the side for the 
challenge.  Kicking with his bloodied leg and grabbing with his hands, 
the commando fought until Nemesis slammed his fist into his face.  The 
anti-gas goggles exploded under the pressure.  The commando went limp 
in Nemesis' hands as he pulled his fist out of the commando's face, 
leaving only a crushed and bleeding lifeless body to slump to the ground 
with a release of his grip.  One other commando ran towards Nemesis, but 
was cut short as Aberdon gunned him down, finding weak points in the 
sides of his armor.  Nemesis reached down towards one of his kills of the 
day to get another weapon in time to head kill one of the other guards 
preparing to fire on Aberdon.  Weapons pointed at the head of the 
remaining one, Lieutenant McGletspy.

	Panting from the adrenaline rush, Nemesis lowered his barrel to 
walk closer to the Lieutenant.  The Lieutenant's leg and chest were 
bleeding from needlers.  He held his chest with his hand under his shirt, 
provocatively looking at the approaching Nemesis.

	"Eat me mother fucker!" yelled the Lieutenant, holding in his 
now exposed hand a death mine :  a high explosive that personnel carry 
for hopeless situations.  

	"Get out!" yelled Nemesis, running backwards and diving for the 
nearest intersecting hallway only a few steps away.  Aberdon let out a 
few rounds into the Lieutenant's skull but not in time to silence the 
mine.  A millisecond later, it erupted into a ball of fire, engulfing 
Aberdon.  A cloud of fire flew down the corridors, running over the rest 
of the party that had taken cover by kissing the ground.  The shockwave 
from the blast echoed its anger down the corridors until the fire itself 
had died away.  Slowly Nemesis pulled himself up off of the ground.  
Putting out a few fires that had started on his suit, he gradually made his 
way back to the battlefield.  

	Donna and Slash stood at the tip of a large blood pool.  Aberdon's 
body was now in six pieces, his extremities lying on the ground near 
him.  Blood stains and body parts cluttered the ceiling, walls and floor 
where the commandos had been.  All their bodies were now soaked, 
burning and scattered all about the hall.  Donna moved over to Nemesis 
and handed him her gun.

	"Gimme your K1 and let's get this over with" she softly spoke.  
Nemesis' large hand took hold of the grip and pointed it towards the 
facing locked door.  He let loose a minigrenade which exploded, 
destroying the locking mechanism on the door.  Donna turned back 
around towards the door only to be handed Nemesis' K1.

	The lab was lined with liquid beds and computer terminals with 
the large computer in the back.  The whole room was barely large 
enough to contain the ten beds.  The group got straight to work laying 
down the explosive packs and detonation arrays around the beds and 
supercomputer.

	"Sync check" said Nemesis as the last one was placed down.  
Donna took out the detonator and confirmed that they were all properly 
synced.

	"5:16:12.  Time to move" said Slash, exiting the room first.  Donna 
put on the last pack containing the party favors and left last, detonator 
in hand.  The trek back down the halls was fairly simple.  Their boots left 
a trail of bloodied bootprints from the last battle as they jogged down the 
hallways.  The thought of where was Jack was on everyone's mind since 
they had had no contact with him for the past few minutes.  A few more 
jogs to the left and right put them back at the stairwell.

	"5:16:49.  Let's do it" said Slash looking at Donna.  Nemesis went 
into the stairwell and proceeded to go up a flight and a half, checking 
for more guards.  Slash followed, but not as far since she was Donna's 
backup.  Donna was the last in and shut the door until only her hand 
with the detonator was sticking out, making sure that the structure 
would not interfere with the detonation.

	"Here we go!" she yelled up the stairs.  'Do it' she told herself as 
she pushed the trigger button down and pulled her arm in quickly.  
Donna began running upstairs as the explosions in the lab rocked the 
basement in a stunning blaze of fire and thunder.  Sonic blasts blew out 
many of the windows as it ran down the hallways only to be followed by 
clouds of fire that engulfed everything in site.  Multiple explosions could 
be distantly heard as the team regrouped on the third subbasement level 
and continued upward toward the main floor.

	"Watch it!" yelled Slash as they made their way to the bottom of 
the first floor's stairs.  An infrared antipersonnel mine was seen on the 
wall next to one of the bottom stairs.  A look skyward showed the 
explosive sitting, waiting for it's target to come through it's invisible 
trip line.  Carefully stepping over the trip line, Nemesis led the way to 
the top door.  'This is just too easy of an escape' he thought to himself 
remembering many other raids whose exit was much tougher than it's 
entrance.  He unfastened two grenades from his armor and proceeded to 
throw them into the hallway, shutting the stairwell door quickly behind 
them.  

	"Grenade!!!" yelled a guard from inside the hallway.  Nemesis' 
guess was right.  The two exploded relatively at the same time.  Nemesis 
quickly entered the smoky hallway and proceeded to fire at the four 
commandos who had taken posts on opposite sides of the stairwell door.  
Slash and Donna soon jumped into the hallway, taking posts on either 
side of Nemesis, guarding against additional intrusion.  A few quick looks 
around only produced the four dead bodies on the ground.  Nemesis 
reloaded.

	The party turned right from the stairwell door and proceeded 
with caution to the next intersection.  They moved slowly with their 
weapons pointed straight ahead, searching for the way out while still 
knowing that they had to return to the original entrance to not only get 
out, but to also find out what happened to Nebulus.  The first intersection 
was clear.

	"Donna.  String a mine across here" ordered Nemesis who 
continued to move on.  Donna handed the mine to Slash who plastered it 
to the opposing wall while Donna strung the device across the 
intersection.  

	The lights began to flicker on and off.  Then the siren was heard.  
The team stopped to look around.  The electronic whirring of the fire 
alarm filled the entire hallway with its annoying tone.  "Code 1 fire alert 
in subbasement 4.  All personnel must evacuate these premises 
immediately" spoke a recorded voice from the speakers that Jack had 
been using previously.  'Why the hell are the alarms going off if Jack 
had control of the situation?' questioned Nemesis.

	"Jack must be out as well" said Slash.  "Let's get the fuck out of 
here!"  The team took off down the hallway.  It was time to leave Cryon 
once and for all.  The operation had taken long enough.  Half of the team 
was either dead or taken out of the picture somehow.   

	"Donna.  Give me your gun and start preparing some party 
favors" yelled Slash taking Donna's gun.  Donna took off her pack and 
sorted through the explosives and grenades, ready to hand them out 
when people needed to die.  Passing another intersection, the team saw 
the back of the chair at the security desk.  Nemesis waved his hand back 
at Donna and she put in it a high explosive, enough of a bang to destroy 
the room.

	"Hey man, catch!" yelled Nemesis.  Nebulus turned around only to 
see the explosive heading his way.  The guards hiding behind the walls 
still had their guns pointed at him if he screwed up.  But then, what else 
could he do.  The team stopped their advance and Nemesis shot two 
minigrenades into the room.  Nebulus jumped from his chair and 
sprinted towards his team as the grenades went off and the explosive 
landed on the chair.  The team took cover just as gun fire was heard, but 
was soon silenced by the deadening thunder of the explosive as it 
completely destroyed everything and everyone in the room.

	"Glad you still know what you're doin'" said Nebulus looking at 
the team.

	"We figured something was up, so I decided to make sure no one 
was in the room" replied Nemesis.  

	"There may be more guards down the hallway."

	"Let's go."  Getting up once again, the team continued down the 
hall and fought through the fire and debris of the security room.  
Finally advancing down the final hall, Nemesis emptied his gun of 
minigrenades and destroyed the entrance door and hopefully 
everything else that could attack them.  Donna dropped off the party 
favors and they carefully exited the docking entrance.  Nemesis was first 
away from the entrance and proceeded to move aside the manhole cover.  
The group got into the hole and Donna, being last as usual, pressed the 
detonator, igniting the explosives left in the pack.  The docking area of 
the building erupted in fire and exploded sending debris everywhere.  
But, the team had already begun the trip through the sewers.  The job 
was over.  It was time to go home.

	Sitting in the van on the way back into the city, no one talked.  
The van took a corner and drove by the Cryon building, getting a good 
look at all the police and fire department personnel who were attacking 
the multiple fires in the building.  The deep color of fire offset the light 
grayish color building in the morning light.  The sun had just started to 
come up, but was still pretty early before daybreak.  They soon turned 
into the city, taking their masks off.




			Cool Darkness
				by Matthew Carpenter



		Chapter 5 : A Thorn in Paradise



	"So what the hell happened in there?" questioned Nemesis 
looking towards the front of the van in Nebulus' direction.

	"I was watching you more than I was watching myself" told a 
disgusted Nebulus, completely shamed by his performance or lack there 
of.

	"At least you know a sign when you see one.  What happened to 
Jack?"

	"What do you mean, what happened to Jack" rudely snapped 
Nebulus who turned around to give Nemesis the evil eye.

	"We lost him before we got to the strike zone.  Where'd he go?  I 
thought he was supposed to follow us all the way out."

	"I don't know.  Maybe he bumped into ICE or something.  Why 
don't we get back there quickly and find out" Nebulus pointed out to 
Donna who pushed her foot into the floor, accelerating the van as she 
drove on into the city.

	Not soon enough for Nebulus' liking, the van pulled in front of 
the garage door of the warehouse.  Nemesis calmly hopped out of the 
back door of the van and proceeded to open the door.  The van came to a 
quiet stop with the garage door crashing down behind it.  The lights 
were still on; the office door to the underground comps was still shut.

	"Jack!  Hey Jack!  Where the hell are you shit-head!?" yelled 
Nemesis, feeling a little funny about the whole situation.  Walking to the 
back of the van, he picked up his rifle and proceeded to walk towards the 
office door.  He was followed by Nebulus and eventually Slash, who had 
had enough of Jack's clowning around.  Screwing around on the nets is 
one thing, but leaving a team in the thick of a job is another.  

	They approached the office door and found it still locked from the 
inside.  Nebulus walked over to a nearby desk, reached into the top 
drawer and picked up a magnetic key.  He returned to the door and 
inserted the flat key into the slot just under the door handle which 
produced a soft pop as the lock disengaged.  Nebulus opened the door and 
the group peered in.  The office was still the same :  a few file cabinets, a 
metal desk with a wooden, rocking office chair, a single light at the desk 
with another one in the ceiling, and a small hand comp sitting at the 
right of the desk.

	'Nothing is missing.  Everything is cool...except' thought Nebulus.  
"Jack's gone."

	"What!?" wined Nemesis in disbelief of wherever Nebulus had 
derived this idea.

	"The chair's here.  He should be sitting in it down in the room" 
stated Nebulus loosing his cool.

	"Bullshit.  He and I changed that last week 'cause he wanted a 
padded chair so his butt wouldn't hurt so much" slapped Nemesis.

	"Huh!?!?" 

	"Come on" said Nemesis entering the room and pressing the 
correct sequence of keys on the hand comp to enable the elevator to the 
comp room.  Slash moved the chair out of the way as the plate under the 
leg area of the desk slowly began its decent into the comp room.  Within 
10 seconds it had hit bottom, about 12 feet below in the concrete dungeon 
where Jack roamed.

	"Jack.  Hey, Jack..you down there!?" yelled Slash.  No answer.

	"He's probably still in the nets.  He'll never respond like that" 
spoke Nebulus.

	"Well there's only one way to find out" said Nemesis as he hang 
dropped from the desk edge into the dark pit.

	"Don...hunnn....you moron" Slash sighed under her breath.  'He 
never thinks about traps.'  "Watch out for traps."  Nemesis never heard 
her voice; his concentration on where he was and not what people were 
doing topside.  He pivoted left in the direction of the comp room.  The 
corridor to the room was normal sized with a low ceiling.  The walls were 
made of cold concrete that still flaked grit when rubbed against.  It was 
dark with a few streaks of light coming from the room, barely lighting 
enough for someone to see.  Nemesis changed his eyes to night vision to 
see that was up with Jack.

	'All right Jack, where the hell are you man.'  He peered into the 
comp room.  The two main comps on the far wall were humming as usual, 
the short ceiling making them look larger than normal.  He walked 
further into the room.  The four workstations were still running with 
their monitors running lines of info across them constantly.  'Jack.  
Where the hell are you.'  He lowered his rifle.  In fact he lowered it until 
the barrel almost scraped the ground.  He stood completely erect and 
walked over to the wall where the control panel was.  A single touch and 
a second panel came up.  He closed his eyes as he turned the ceiling light 
on.  His eyes were switched back to normal vision and he opened his 
eyelids.

	"Come on down, guys!" yelled Nemesis as he looked over at Jack 
who was still slouched in his padded chair, still jacked into the nets.

	"What's the deal!?" yelled back Slash.

	"He's here.  Still in the net."  The elevator platform began to move 
back up and in no time the rest of the team minus Donna was in the comp 
room.  "I guess he's still in the net."

	"What the hell's he still doin' in there?" replied Slash quite 
disgusted at Jack now that he was still here and had left them in Cryon.

	"He must've run into something." sighed Nebulus looking at his 
foot as it tapped lightly on the concrete floor.  'What could he have run 
into?  ICE?  Naw, couldn't be.  He's too good for that.  Then again...  Naw, 
he must be screwin' around or somethin'.  But why would he leave us in 
Cryon to go screw around somewhere?  I wonder if they got this thing up 
and running before we got there.  Or what if they had another site, or if 
we attacked the wrong site!  Couldn't be.  We planned this thing to 
perfectly to hit the wrong site.  Yeah, sure.' he thought to himself, 
especially after how badly they fucked the whole deal up.  'Well, there's 
only one way to find out.'  Looking up he said "I'm goin' in" and started to 
walk towards the workstation next to Jack's.

	"What!  You can't be serious.  Let's just pull the plug and get him 
back" screeched Slash.

	"Yeah, right.  And possibly loose him forever.  He might be into 
something serious, and there's only one way to find out." replied 
Nebulus, putting a wireless jack next to his ports.

	"I thought you could track someone like that for cryin' out loud!"

	"We'll see about that."  With that he sat in the chair and jacked in, 
wireless of course.

	"Well, let's get them prepared for a long trip.  I can't see them 
coming back any time soon" softly spoke Slash.  She and Nemesis turned 
to the one cabinet that had little components and things in it.  The door 
was opened and two IV's were taken out by Slash.  She walked over to the 
two and began to get Jack ready for insertion.  Nemesis in the mean time 
began preparing the two nutrient bags.  In no time, both Jack and 
Nebulus were outfitted with medical nutrient bags that fed into their 
system.  That way they at least wouldn't dehydrate.

		Nebulus stood up from a kneeling position on the 
	asphalt street of an unknown city.  It was dark, actually 
	gray in color and the clouds in the sky were moving very 
	fast.  The surrounding buildings stood like monuments 
	compared to Nebulus' small body.  A little piece of 
	newspaper skipped by along the ground behind his feet.  
	The long street he was looking down seemed to go on 
	forever.  The city was completely deserted.  
	
		"Strange" he told himself outloud.  "Oh, well, let's 
	get going."  He began walking in the direction of the first 
	gate to get into mainstream cyberspace.  A few steps and 
	he leaned forward to the ground and shape changed into a 
	sleek black sports car, one of the new European cars that 
	can top 300 mph.  Fat tires, no rear view mirrors; kinda 
	like an old Countach he thought to himself as he squealed 
	his tires and flew down the streets.  

		"Great.  Traffic jam already."  In the near distance 
	he could see lots of people trying to get into the gateway.  
	"Always a bunch of jerks who don't know there way 
	around the block yet."  With a glance skyward, he pulled 
	off the ground and moved a story or two above the rest of 
	the traffic.  Flying over the crown was fun.  The first 
	gateway was breached easily and he soon got back onto 
	the road and cruised into the highways, the internet 
	highways that connected to everywhere in the world, and 
	then some.

		After only a little time, his speed began to slow.  
	Actually he began to slow immensely, eventually coming 
	to a complete stop.  'What the hell is going on?' he thought 
	to himself, checking all of his systems.  Then he began to 
	shape change back into a person, except he hadn't chosen 
	to do so.  'Somebody's taking control of my environment.'  
	Then he began to fly backwards, completely out of 
	control.  He fought to stabilize and he tried to stop, but 
	eventually was thrown back into the crowd of people 
	waiting at the gateway entrance.  With an additional 
	thrust, he was tossed into the crowd, landing on the hard 
	asphalt just like everyone else had.

		"What the hell is going on!" he yelled at the top of 
	his lungs as he stood up, wiping himself off.  The area 
	around he began to change and soon he was standing on a 
	computer generated grid.  No streets.  No buildings.  Just 
	grids.  He continued to look around, finally running his 
	identifier program.  In a few seconds an arrow appeared 
	pointing in the direction off to his right, toward the 
	gateway.  He started to push his way in that direction, 
	searching for Jack.  The gateway soon became clearer to 
	him as it was a large billboard sign which read :


		The Cyberspace Mob now rules the nets	

		    Pay to Enter.  Pay at your OWN Risk


		"What the hell is going on, here!" he yelled.

		"Oh shut up up there you asshole!" came from 
	someone behind him.  He turned around to see who the 
	hell was yelling at him in a crisis like this.

		"Fuck you buddy!" he yelled back, not knowing 
	who had yelled at him.  He continued to push his way 
	towards the front.  Eventually he got within a few 
	hundred feet of the gateway and recognized Jack only a 
	few steps in front of him.

		"Jack, what the hell is going on here man!?" asked 
	Nebulus as he reached his companion.

		"What the hell are you doing here?  I thought you 
	were still in Cryon."
	
		"I was.  We got back already.  What the hell 
	happened to you?"

		'Take a look.  One second I was in, the next I was 
	pulled out by these guys.  Do you believe this shit.  They've 
	taken over all the surrounding gateways and there's no 
	way in or out to another gateway."

		"What do you mean.  You can't even break it?"
	
		"No one can" explained Jack in a sorrowful tone of 
	voice.  "I've found a few friends here and they can't break 
	it.  Whoever made this isn't working for the government, 
	military or a company.  This is straight from the 
	underground.  All I can figure is that it's written in a new 
	AI language that actually learns who you are and how to 
	keep you from getting into the gateway if you haven't 
	paid."

		"You mean to tell me that someone is holding the 
	gateway hostage?"

		"Yep.  The funny part is that no one has any idea 
	who could've pulled a stunt like this off.  This is beyond 
	professional.  I can't even tell where it's coming from."  
	The two stood around almost as lost as everyone else.  It 
	was getting more crowded as time went on and eventually, 
	Nebulus had had enough.

		"Get a site set up so we can start attacking this 
	thing from the inside out."

		"Yeah right" replied Jack completely disgusted 
	now.  "Don't you think I've tried it already in about a 
	thousand configurations, only to get tossed back without 
	getting any further into the system.  I told you once you 
	moron, the more you do the more it understands about 
	you, which means that it can stop you easier every time 
	you try something new."

		"So how do we get the fuck through" blazed a 
	beyond frustrated Nebulus.

	"So what should we do now?" asked Nemesis, peering towards the 
elevator.  After standing there for ten minutes, his patience had run out 
and a bar run was the first thing that ran into his head.  "I know.  How 
about some Black Oil?"

	"That dump.  Naw, I'm not in the mood" casually replied Slash.  

	"How about Hot Kicks" she said with a sly grin growing on her face as 
she looked into Nemesis' eyes.

	"You gotta be kiddin' me.  We don't fit into a place like that."

	"That doesn't keep you from screwin' every chic with big tits, 
long legs, and stockings pulled up to her crotch that works there now 
does it?" she kidded pulling him towards the elevator.

	"Jealous?" he asked with a smirk.

	"I'm coming in my pants just thinking about you" she joked as 
they stood on the elevator platform.  She pressed her hand against the 
wall where a hidden panel was and the platform began to rise.  

	Topside, they walked out of the office to find Donna sitting in one 
of the office chairs in front of a desk off to the side of the warehouse.

	"Everything OK with Jack?"

	"Who knows.  Nebulus went into the matrix to fetch him" replied 
Slash.  "Hey.  We're gonna go to a bar.  Wanna come?"

	"Sure.  But first, where's my money?" she said getting back down 
to business.

	"Nebulus handles that and he is preoccupied right now."  Donna 
wasn't too pleased about this.  In fact she was getting quite pissed off as 
she stood up to face Slash.  "Chill woman.  It's not like we're gonna forget 
you.  Jeez."

	"Hey.  A job is a job.  Now it's done and I want my money!"

	"Look honey, you ain't gonna get paid until he gets out of the nets 
so why don't you just pack that bitchy attitude of yours away and chill 
out until he is free.  This job ain't done until we're all back and we got 
two in the nets!"  snarled Slash, frowning her brow.

	Nemesis looked on at the 'cat fight' as he called it between the 
two.  'Wait a minute.'  He looked at Donna's forehead.  'Zoom in.  More.  
There.  Now look at that.  Sweat.  And it's not even hot here, either.'  He 
moved his gaze down to her hands.  'Same thing, and even a little 
twitchy.'  He panned back up to her chest which was expanding and 
contracting a little faster and larger than he would've expected.  He 
switched his eyes to IR, trying to get a thermal scan of her body.  To no 
avail, the combat suit that she still wore blocked most of the signals 
coming from her body and canceled his experiment.

	"All right.  Chill out.  Why don't you take a shower and get 
changed and I will pull Nebulus out in time for him to pay you.  Then we 
can go to the bars.  OK?" stated Nemesis.

	"Where the hell am I gonna..."

	"There's a shower in the bathroom over there" he said pointing to 
a door along the office wall, "and your extra clothes that you brought are 
still in the van, right?"

	"Don't EVEN think about pullin' somethin' stupid, Nemesis" she 
warned with a glare.  Nemesis didn't move and didn't loose eye contact 
until she turned around to get her stuff out of the van.  Slash took his 
arm and turned him to fact her.

	"What the fuck do you think you're doing?" she scowled in a low 
voice.

	"Trust me."

		By now, Jack and Nebulus had jumped in and out of 
	cyberspace at least a dozen times, trying to trick the 
	gateway or get past it somehow.  Each time they would 
	bring in different attack programs and loose them just as 
	quickly as the 'Cyberspace Mob' would find them and 
	erase them, or make them unusable.  There were now 
	about five people in a group around Jack and Nemesis; all 
	of whom knew each other through one facet or another. 

		"So where do we go from here?" sighed one of the 
	guys.

		"We have to find another way around it.  
	Everything we've tried has failed.  Period.  And I can't see 
	any way around it" said Jack.

		"So the cybermaster Jack has finally met his 
	match.  How interesting" stated Nebulus, getting more 
	excited at the prospect of what seemed like the ultimate 
	challenge.

		"I wouldn't say that so soon.  It's just going to take 
	some time to figure out how to get around it" replied Jack, 
	letting the comment fly over his head.

		"So where are we?" asked one of Jack's friends.

		"Simple.  We can't get past without paying, which 
	is completely absurd.  We know it's not being done by the 
	government, military, a company, Mogul, Nestroth and a 
	few other groups.  But that leaves a lot of names that, 
	although I can't figure who could've masterminded this, 
	could be responsible for it" stated Jack.

		Someone else spoke up.  "Well, attack and defense 
	programs don't work.  It can tell who we are and seems to 
	know our strengths and weaknesses.  Camouflaging 
	doesn't help since it kills that first.  I don't think if we 
	sent ICE against it it would even work."

		"What!  Are you nuts.  How the hell would you SEND 
	ICE after it.  There's nowhere to keep it connected to to 
	run it" heckled another.

		"Yes there is and that's exactly what we're gonna 
	do" spoke Jack, standing up and pacing around in a very 
	small circle.  "We can attach it to the gateway itself.  It's 
	identifier must still exist or we couldn't have gotten here."

		"Yeah, but it'll already know how to kill ICE."

		"Yeah, but I know a way to make it so they can't 
	track it or disarm it" ecstatically spoke Jack.  "Everyone 
	jump out and meet me at my comp room in 1 hour."

	Donna came out of the bathroom wearing a short mini with tights 
underneath it, highlighting her legs with black spandex.  Her wet hair 
left trickles of water on her leather short jacket that covered a tank top.  

	'Switch to IR.  Focus and zoom on chest area.  Just as I thought.'  
"You definitely look sexy tonight, woman" yelled Nemesis from across 
the warehouse.  He hopped off the desk he was sitting on and approached 
her.

	"So where's Nebulus with my money, macho man?" she said with 
a smirk in her smile.

	"This way, my lady" he said, raising his left hand, palm up, to take 
hers as a rightful gentleman should.  She placed her right hand in his 
with a flirtatious smile.  He slowly started to turn around and Donna 
began to take a step forward to accompany him.  

	Quickly, Nemesis spun back in her direction, landing a bone-
breaking fist in her stomach.  Instantaneously, she fell to the ground as 
if life had been sucked out of her.  She laid on the ground in a fetal 
position, holding her stomach, completely unable to breath from the 
attack.  Nemesis looking over to Slash who was sitting at a desk, giving 
her the signal.  She rose from her chair carrying a needle.  Nemesis 
reached down and gripped Donna's jacket firmly by the shoulders and 
ripped it down her arms so that they were bare from her shoulder to her 
elbow.  She winced in pain, still unable to breath.  Nemesis reached his 
hand up and received the needle from Slash.

	"Nighty night, my little spy" cooed Nemesis with a devil's grin, as 
he injected her with the tranquilizer.

	"Nighty night, bitch" spit Slash.




			Cool Darkness
				by Matthew Carpenter



			Chapter 6 : A Slap in the Face



	"Whew.  Man oh man.  This one's gonna hurt" said a sweaty 
Jack as he faced his sidearm, Nebulus.  He stood up and staggered 
over to the bathroom stall that was on the other side of the 
elevator to relieve himself.  Nebulus just sat there rubbing his 
eyes.  After a few seconds he stood and walked over to the elevator 
platform and momentarily waited for the chair to come down.

	"Where the hell you goin'?" yelled Jack from the stall.

	"I'm gonna check on the others and tell them what's up.  
We're gonna need some info from the streets and fast ...." he 
trailed off in his own thought as the chair arrived.  He sat down 
and got to the office floor in no time, listening to Jack rant and 
rave about what he had just said.  Nebulus' brow was furrowed, 
now, and time had taken it's toll on him.  He walked out of the 
office to notice the van was missing.  "Goddamn, stupid son's of 
bitches!" he yelled, spinning around to look at the whole 
warehouse.  "Those dumn fuck's!  If it's the last thing I told them 
it's to stay put!  Jesus!" he fumed slamming a fist into the desk he 
began to sit at.  A thousand swear words ran through his mind 
and his head began to throb.  Closing his eyes, he sat back in the 
hard wood chair thinking about the job, running his fingers 
through his hair.  'Of course, we first had to fuck the job up.  
Then we actually had to run into this damn mob.  Who the hell 
would dare to be a mob on the nets.  Who would have the 
capabilities.  Hmmmmm.  "The government" his eyes flashed 
open.  "Nah.  Couldn't be" he said to himself with a quirky smile 
that almost gleamed with getting the answer, and then laughed at 
it's stupidity.  "But it would be the perfect front to run us 
down....legally.  Well, kind of.  Shit."

	He opened the top desk drawer and took out a few plastic 
bottles of pills.  He popped a few in his mouth and downed them 
with a flat can of Coke that had probably been there more than a 
day.  

	"What's the matter with you!" yelled Jack from the office's 
entrance.  "How many times have I told you not to get drugged 
before you jack in.  Especially now.  What the hell do you ..."

	"Oh shut up and take this!" said Nebulus throwing a bottle 
to Jack.  He caught it with a rattle and looked up very disgusted 
almost in disbelief at what Nebulus was implying.  "Relax, it's 
caffeine.  It'll wake you up."

	"I'm not tired" replied Jack walking towards Nebulus.  He 
screwed the cap off the bottle and put a pill in his mouth.  He 
reached the table, putting the closed bottle down and picking up 
the can of Coke.

	"That's been there awhile, you know" muttered Nebulus.

	"I know.  I opened it last week" he said with a smirk.

*************

	Slash had been driving the van through the back streets of 
the city for about ten minutes until she came to the designated 
spot Nemesis had told her to go to.  The tall buildings surrounding 
them sent shadows out to swallow up the surrounding sidewalks, 
almost requiring a street lights to light up the broken and 
graffittied walls that surrounded them.  

	"So where the hell do we go from here?" she asked, leaning 
over her shoulder to get a glimpse of Nemesis' back.  He was 
leaning over Donna who was still out cold.  Her arms were tied 
together with unbreakable plastic ties that were laced from her 
wrists up to her elbows.  Her hands had turned pale from lack of 
blood in her hands.  Her legs were tied in a similar manner, one 
that Nemesis found a certain liking to.

	"There should be a garage door around here somewhere 
that has the word 'Ixzer' graffettied on it in red" replied Nemesis 
who had turned to look out the front windshield.  "Just go slow 
and we should  be able to see it better."

	"I can't see a goddamn thing with Ixzer on it" whined 
Slash, getting quite frustrated with the whole secretive situation.  
'First you don't tell me where we're going, then what we're doing.  
You dumb shit!  I don't see why I ever listen to you.'  She slowly 
eased her foot on the accelerator and let the van drift down the 
alleyway, nearly scraping the sides of it on one of the buildings.

	"Stop here.  Turn the engine off" spoke Nemesis in a 
hushed voice as he popped the sliding door open and slowly 
began to push it out of his way.

	"What's the silence for man?  I don't see any Ixzer."

	Without a reply, he jumped out of the van, landing his 
combat boots on the broken asphalt and turned around to scoop 
up the still unconscious Donna.  Throwing her over his shoulder, 
he walked in front of the van and stood in front of the garage 
door.  Slash got out and stood behind him still unsure of what was 
about to happen.  'Switch to UV.'  Ixzer appeared on the door, just 
as he had said.  He slowly moved to the wall on the left side of the 
door and allowed Donna to slide from his shoulder, landing 
soundly on the concrete with a thud.

	"Well I see we're in a good mood today" smirked Slash 
getting a kick out of Nemesis' behavior.  'He's finally back to his 
old self' she smiled to herself, looking down at Donna.  'Bitch.'  
Her smile was broken as the wall Nemesis was touching broke 
open and a small camera appeared in front of his face.  She took a 
step back, getting into a combat stance.  Her claws extended 
instantly.  He never moved.

	"Enter password" stated a speaker originating from near 
the camera.

	"Zephia 12 Luther Mia" replied Nemesis.  The camera 
disappeared as the wall rebuilt itself, hiding the broken area.  A 
couple of loud noises came from within the garage and the door 
slowly began to open.  Nemesis bent over and scooped up Donna's 
body and began walking into the garage.  Slash followed a little 
hesitantly behind her companion, still with her claws out and 
ready.  She really hated being uninformed.

	"Stop right there!" came a deep, husky male voice from 
within the darkness of the garage.  The two of them had barely 
gotten ten feet within the building.  

	"Who's there!" yelled Slash from behind her companion.

	"Nemesis.  How's it goin' mon?"

	"Not too bad Doc.  Got a little present for you."

	"Another hooker.  Don't you know I gave them up for 
lent?"

	"No hookers this time.  A tinker toy to take apart."

	By now, Slash was completely confused.  'What the hell is 
going on?  How is this guy and where the hell is he?' she thought 
trying to look into the darkness.

	"Do we get to have some fun this time?"

	"You got it."

	"Bring her in."  The lights flashed on, slightly blinding 
Slash for a second.  The garage door immediately slammed down 
into the concrete that startled the always calm Slash.

	"Will someone please tell me what the fuck is going on!" 
yelled Slash at the top of her lungs.  Nemesis turned around 
slowly eyeing her weirdly.

	"Slash, meet Doc.  He's a techie friend of mine.  He likes to 
take things apart and see how they work."  He turned towards Doc 
and began walking in his general direction.  "Doc, this is my 
friend Slash.  She's with Nestroth" he said pointing a thumb in 
her direction.  

	"Hey ya sexy" he said looking her over.  She looked him 
over back.  He stood almost as tall as Nemesis, but had black hair 
down to the middle of his back that flowed as he turned around to 
lead Nemesis to the door behind him.  He walked with a limp to the 
left side and had a cybernetic left arm as well.  'He must've gotten 
into something' thought Slash to herself as she began to follow 
the two men towards the door, her claws finally retracting.  It 
was unlocked with a pass card and led to a set of stairs leading 
downward.  Doc led them down.  Nemesis bumped Donna's head on 
the door frame.  Slash just had to let out a small laugh at that.

	They arrived at a another door that lead into a cybernetics 
lab, or something that looked like one.  Donna was placed on the 
medical table in the middle of the room.  There were tools of all 
sorts lining the walls and hanging from the ceiling.  Off to the 
left side were large tools for more heavy equipment, including 
what looked like a modified military gatlin gun.

	"I take it you like weaponry, sweetie?" smirked Doc seeing 
Slash look the gun over.  She looked at him with an anticipated 
smile that said yes.  "Hmm.  Maybe I'll let you take her for a ride 
tonight."  He turned towards Nemesis who was cutting Donna's 
bonds with one of Doc's molecularly sharp blades.

	"So what the hell's with this chic anyways?" asked Doc.

	"She worked with us on our last project, but she's got 
something in her chest that I think is a bug.  It's the only thing 
that explains why we ran into shit."

	"How do you know?"

	"Look at her under IR.  You'll see something really black 
there."

	"So you want to cut her open and see what we can see?"

	"Let's see if she will talk first."  The two men took her arms 
and legs, cuffing them to the four corners of the table securely.  
Doc took out an antidote for the sleeping chemical Nemesis used 
on her, and injected her with it.  In a few moments she came to 
trying to wipe her eyes with no luck from the restraints.  She 
looked up to see Nemesis looking right into her face.  Doc was 
busy putting on a surgeon's hat, mask and gloves.  'Interesting 
difference from the mechanics suit there Doc' Slash told herself 
as she too walked towards Donna.

	"Who are you working for Donna?" asked Nemesis in a 
very calm voice.

	"What the hell are you doing?  Untie me at once, you 
moron!" she screamed back testing her restraints.

	"I don't think so sweetie.  I think you set us up, which is 
why you've got a bug in your chest.  So why don't you just tell us 
what is going on" he said politely.

	"I'm not working for anyone.  And I don't have anything 
in my chest you, idiot!  Now let me go!" she screamed.  Doc walked 
around and attached two electrodes to her head and turned on a 
scanner that monitored certain parts of the brain for 
brainwaves.  "What the hell is that?  Who is he?"

	"Donna, I'm only going to ask you one more time, before I 
cut your chest open and find out what the hell you have in there.  
Now, tell me, who are you working for" he said in a very deep 
voice that began to frighten Donna even more.  His frowned brow 
made her look at him with wide eyes, fearing that he was serious.  
She thought for a moment, and then just made her eyelids very 
narrow and matched his frown with hers.

	"Fuck off bastard" she replied in a low tone.  Nemesis bent 
down until his face was less than a centimeter away from hers 
without changing his expression.

	"Have it your way, my dear."  He moved his lips down to 
hers and gave her a small kiss on the lips.  She didn't kiss him 
back.  He withdrew his face from hers, standing straight up, and 
removed the electrodes from her head.  "We won't be needing 
these" he said tossing them to Doc.  He looked back down at Donna 
and saw the fear in her eyes, yet also saw her determination as 
well.  He moved his right hand up to his left shoulder and quickly 
sent it flying across Donna's face, slapping her cheek so that the 
side of her face bounced off the table.  Blood began to trickle 
from the corner of her mouth as she turned to glare back at 
Nemesis whose facial expression still had not changed.

	"You asshole.  I'm gonna kill you, you son of a bitch!" she 
screamed.  Starting to violently pull on her restraints, she yelled 
and screamed until Doc had had enough.

	"Time to put her to sleep, I think."

	"Not this time.  I want her to feel this" snarled Nemesis.  
Donna barely caught what he said and gasped a little in 
anticipation.  Nemesis nodded to Slash who was getting a kick out 
of the torture being induced by Nemesis.  'It's good to have him 
back' she thought to herself.  She walked to Donna's right side 
and smiled at her.  Donna only caught a glimpse of her out of her 
peripheral vision.  Stroking her stomach, Slash began feeling 
Donna's lower ribs and stomach.  Then raised her strong arm and 
let the side of her fist slam into Donna's stomach, just below her 
sternum.  Donna sucked in her breath and pulled at her cuffs as 
her face turned red from her breath being knocked of out her.  
She finally relaxed a little and began taking short breaths.

	Nemesis stood above her head still and pulled her jacket 
away as much as possible from her chest.  He then reached into 
her top and in one swift pull, ripped the top of it and her bra 
open.  She struggled underneath him to no evail as his hands 
went further down to grab the divided material at the edge of the 
tear.  In another pull, her top was in two and he pulled the parts 
to the sides to reveal her bare chest and white breasts.  Her 
nipples were slightly hard from her treatment, something that 
Slash took note of.  She slowly caressed both of Donna's breasts, 
allowing her touch to become rougher as her claws extended a 
few inches from her fingertips.  Her slight smile of playfulness 
changed to a devilish grin as she moved her fingers to the 
underside of Donna's breasts and pushed her claws into the skin 
below them.  Not wanting to be outdone by what was sure to be 
effective torture by Nemesis, Slash began to drag her claws down 
towards Donna's navel.

	"Now who are you working for Donna?" asked Slash now 
enjoying the fun as well.

	"Nobody!  I swear I'm not working for anybody!" she 
screamed.  Tears were now running from her eyes as she tossed 
her head from side to side.  Slash only pushed in harder until 
blood coated much of her lower stomach.

	'I've had enough of this shit' thought Nemesis as he 
reached over for the molecularly sharp blade he had cut her 
bonds with.  He placed the edge of it next to the tendon in her 
right peck.  Slash reluctantly pulled her claws out of Donna as 
she saw what Nemesis was about to do.  "Donna, why did you set us 
up.  Tell me or you will regret it" he spoke in a stern voice after 
waiting impatiently for an answer.

	"Go to hell!" she yelled.  The pain and realization of the 
situation, finally breaking her.

	"Fine.  Slash put a gag in her mouth.  I don't want any of 
her childish screams to hurt my ears"  he said.  Slash complied by 
stuffing a dirty rag in her mouth and stepped back as Nemesis 
began slowly cutting the tendon in her peck.  Her screams were 
muffled by the rag, but her tears and struggling movements only 
made the pain worse.  The tendon finally broken and Donna let 
out a ear-piercing shriek as the tears rolled down her face freely.

	"That's enough, Nemesis" said Doc as he came over to 
Nemesis who was getting ready to start on the other shoulder.  He 
placed the end of a silver device that looked like a gun to Donna's 
throat and pulled the trigger.  She jerked and then collapsed to 
the table, unconscious.  

	"Making her squirm is not going to get the info you want 
man."

	"You know how much I hate people who stab me in the 
back."

	"Let's just get what you came for and forget about it, all 
right?" spoke Doc in a soft tone of voice, a little shocked by the 
whole situation.

	"You're the doc.  Let's see what's in her chest."  He removed 
the blade from her shoulder and stepped back as Doc began to 
stop the bleeding in Donna's stomach with a laserstitch.  After 
removing the gag in her mouth, he began working on stopping 
the extensive bleeding from her shoulder.  To Nemesis' wishes, he 
finally cut into her chest with a scalpel.  Doc brought over a few 
instruments to determine just where and what the black box in 
her chest really was, then began to go after the prize.

	"Jesus Christ!  This thing is really in her.  Someone really 
did a good job on her when they put it in."  Doc continued to try 
and get a better look at the black thin box that was lodged under 
Donna's sternum, near her collar bone.  "How the hell could she 
breath for cryin' out load?"  The frown on Doc's face spelled a 
tough job, and probably one done by a pro.  He continued to open 
her up enough to get at the box and finally cut the thin metal 
rings that were securing it to her sternum.  A soft digital pulse 
emanated from Donna's direction, and then a hushed pop silenced 
all sound in the room.  Her head and body jerked slightly and 
then went limp again.  Her heart drastically slowed until coming 
to a complete stop within seconds of the diminished sound.

	"Damn" softly stated Doc, keeping his hands still.

	"What?" questioned Slash and Nemesis almost in unison.

	"Shoulda known.  Oh well.  Let's see what we can see."  He 
slowly pulled the box out from under Donna's sternum, not 
bothering to put her back together more than letting the torn 
skin slide back into place.  Taking the box over to the sink, he 
removed most of the blood from the box with a damp towel and put 
it under a lamp to get a better look at it.  'Edging at the sides, not 
too tough.  No markings, no noticeable points, oh hey, there's the 
trigger mechanism' he thought looking at a very small silver 
line down the inside of the clips.  Nemesis and Slash becoming 
bored with the subject at hand, retired to opposite sides of the 
room to lean on the walls, waiting for something to come out of 
the box that would give them a clue to Donna's true loyalties.

	Doc picked the box up and moved it over to the work table 
and placed it on a ceramic flat plate that was situated under one of 
his analyzers.  Within a few minutes he had run IR, UV, X-ray and 
a few other tests just to see what was in the middle of the black 
box.  He then took a small tool and began wedging the corner of it 
open until the lid popped up.  Slowly, he lifted it off and revealed 
the small transmitter board that the X-ray scan had shown.

	"So what do we got?" gruffly asked Nemesis, still 
pessimistically leaning on the wall.

	"Transmitter box.  It essentially controlled the bomb.  
However, it could have been triggered by someone else with some 
form of an electronic signal."

	"So she had a fail safe in her, huh?"  he said moving closer 
to Donna again.  He brushed her cheek with his index finger and 
moved his face close to hers.  "You got outta this easy wench" he 
whispered to her.  Standing up, he moved over to take the box in 
his hand.  "So can you figure out who made it or who could 
detonate it?" he asked looking at Doc.

	"Maybe.  It'll take some time."

	"Contact me in the usual way in one day" replied Nemesis 
as he handed the box back to Doc and motioned Slash to following 
him out the door.  

	"What about your woman?"

	"Oh yeah."  Nemesis grabbed a nearby trash bag and 
worked it over Donna's head and torso after removing her bonds.  
He scooped her up so that she was crunched upside down into the 
bag and then proceeded to head up the stairs.

	As Doc verified the garage door closing from his wall 
monitor he dialed into his telecom and waited while the security 
codes played their game before opening a screen.

	"What is it?" came Nebulus' tired voice.

	"We've got a few problems."

******************

	"So what the hell are you going to do with her?" 
reprimanded Slash as she drove into the next alleyway.

	"Pull up next to that dumpster over there?"  The van 
stopped and Nemesis pulled Donna's body out of the van, throwing 
it into the dumpster without a care.  He returned to the van to 
fetch a can of gasoline and proceeded to pour some of the can's 
contents onto Donna's body.  He returned to the van and picked 
up an old oil rag.  Lighting it, the van began to move away as he 
threw it into the dumpster and slid the van's side door shut.

The Vigilante

Hello, Greetings, Salutations, etc,
Well, its finally here.  The latest chapter of The Vigilante.
Please forgive me for the horrendous delay but I've been trying.

Following are as far as I know the latest versions of all previous
chapters of my epic master piece.  Along with the newest.
I've tried to atleast spell check the thing, so at least that much is
right.  As for continuity, flow, readability, wellll, I don't
think its too bad, but I've been looking at it tooo much lately.

I am *VERY* interested in any and all comments.  Please
let me know what you like, don't like, have trouble following etc.
I am receptive to all feed back.  also knowing people are reading
my stuff keeps me writing.

If there are any major flow errors please let me know,
even send the offending portion, I had to recover a
large portion from a major disk failure and may have
lost some portions.

For those not familure with the Vigilante, it is
a work in process,(has been for over a year now)
It is a Star Trek the Next Generation Universe story
but follows a different ship and crew.  The Big E
and gang only make cameo appearences.

I hope you enjoy it and I hope to work on and maybe even
finish the last chapter, VI "Full Circle" some time this year.

Larry
1160 Boyer Rd
Erie, Pa 16511

len101@psuvm.psu.edu
The following is a ST:TNG universe story, all rights reserved.
Permission is granted to copy and distribute to anybody
free of charge.  If anybody includes in in a Fanzine or anything,
just let me know and send me a copy.  and of course always include
this header or a better version of it :)

Standard disclaimers apply,
All Poetry taken from the _Collected Works of Robert Service_
without permission but great respect

Larry
---------
Lawrence Nagy
1160 Boyer Rd
Erie PA 16511


as always, any feedback, comments, discussion, money, uncancled non-US
postage stamps are always welcome and appreciated.


                  T H E   V I G I L A N T E

                              I

                        "The Drawing"



Have ever you heard of the Land of Beyond,
    That dreams at the gates of the day?
Alluring it lies at the skirts of the skies,
    and ever so far away;
Alluring it calls: O ye the yoke galls,
    and ye of the trail overfond,
With saddle and pack, by paddle and track,
    Let's go to the land of beyond!
                                   ....
                        Robert Service
                        "THE LAND OF BEYOND"






    The Tau-Epsilon star system was remote even by Star Fleet
standards, of course this was one of the reasons it was
chosen.  It was also a very crowded system with twelve
planets and 6 different asteroid belts.  The five innermost
planets were 'rocks' with the rest being gas giants.  The
system also had a very uneven planetary plane making the
inner planets a little bit more difficult to approach.
    The fourth planet from the yellow Tau-Epsilon sun had a
barely breathable atmosphere.  In years past there had been a
small mining operation on the planet but it had been
abandoned for a more profitable system.  The habitats left
behind, however, had made a great base camp for the project
now nearing completion.
    Star Fleet didn't normally make a habit of constructing a
star ship in such a remote location.  This ship, however, was
extremely unique not only in its design but also in its
mission.
    The flat black of the space dock girders hung in a close
orbit around TE-4.  Inside the frame work was a truly
different star ship.  The large saucer section and warp
engines made it unmistakably Star Fleet.  The saucer section
was obviously old, even the lowest cadet at the academy would
know that it shouldn't be tied to the new style warp engines
especially four of them.  There were a number other things
that a trained eye would pick out wrong with this ship.  Some
that shouldn't be on a saucer section that old and others
that simply were not Star Fleet standard.
    Along the girders were a number of prefabricated
buildings.  All habitats for the workers and equipment were
contained in the buildings set up along the girders.  These
accommodations would normally be provided for either planet
side or in a nearby space station.  That, however, was quite
impractical here.  Once the space dock was completed the
workers were grateful to be away from the old mining
habitats.  The VE-4 space dock had become a self contained
world with but one purpose, build the ship.
    Most of the construction and workers were no longer
visible as they had moved inside the ship to make it space
worthy.  A few white suited workers could be seen along the
girders and in and around the ship tying up loose ends.
    Standing alone barely noticeable against the black of the
girders and the continuous night about them was a lone figure
in a black pressure suit.  As construction neared completion
the man came and stood here more often, staring at the ship.
    Captain Anthony watched his ship near completion, and
thought of the mission ahead, it was suicide by it's very
nature.  This, however, hadn't deterred him from accepting
command.  It also didn't have an effect on volunteers to crew
the ship even though no one knew the ship, its name its
design or its mission.  All that was known was that it was
extremely hazardous duty with only single, unattached and
experienced personnel considered for duty.

    Anthony glanced down at the displays in his helmet, the
Enterprise should be arriving soon he thought, it had entered
the system just before he had stepped out.  The security for
the sector and the system was extremely tight.  The
Enterprise would approach so as always to have TE-4 between
it and the Space Dock.  The fewer people who saw the ship or
even knew about it the better.  The consequences of
information falling into the wrong hands Picard and the
officers of the Enterprise knew all too well.
    This is why Enterprise was the only ship that visited
TE-4.  It is also why there were no records being kept of the
visits and the sensors were never used to check the
construction site.  Simple beacons and indirect
communications were the only proof the Enterprise had that
anything was here at all.  The only reason Picard went along
with this was that he knew the basic, ultimate mission of
what ever was happening here, that was enough.

----------

    "Sir, approaching minimum distance to beacon signal." A
young navigator said as the Enterprise entered orbit about
the barren TE-4.
    "Thank you, Ensign" said Captain Picard.  He then turned
to his first officer and said "Number one, inform our guests
to gather their belongings and report to their designated
transporter....."
    The navigator pushed a strand of her red hair off her
forehead and stared at the planet on the view screen.  In the
background she could hear the conversation of the bridge
crew, however unless she picked up something pertaining to
her or her job she just filtered the noise out.
    Ensign O'Malley was a dreamer and self proclaimed
romantic.  She was born on the feral colony on Vega-5 and
adopted when she was twelve by Doctor Peter O'Malley.  The
ships physician of the first star ship to visit V-5 in over
200 years.  Many of the warlords of V-5 rejected Star Fleet
claiming the colony was settled before the current Federation
charter was signed, therefore, they were protected by the
Prime Directive.  After months of negotiations Star Fleet
finally pulled out, but not before little Janice had been
adopted.
    She had been on board the Enterprise for quite some time
but rarely worked with top bridge crew.  Her normal shift was
usually second or third by the ships schedule.  The only
times she worked with them was in special situations when the
captain's presence was required during her shift or an
emergency arrived.  The only problem was that during
emergencies she was usually relieved for the more experienced
first shift navigator.  This was one of those rare occasions
when something important enough was happening during her
shift to bring the Captain out of his hole but not important
enough for them to bring the whole first shift crew to the
bridge.
    Janice O'Malley always dreamed of what lay just out of
sight.  She had that desire to open a closed door, turn just
one more corner, to look to the other side of the horizon.
This caused great conflict in her during these missions, she
greatly wished to conjecture to her shipmates her ideas as to
what was on the other side of this horizon.  However, for
security reasons all talk on the subject was prohibited.
    During the first trip to the system Ensign O'Malley had
noticed that the automatic navigation log had been disengaged
prior to her shift.  When she brought this up with the
officer of the shift he reminded her of the no record order
by Star Fleet and all automatic logs had been deactivated.
It was highly stressed that no one should talk about or enter
personal logs that revealed any details of the mission.

----------

    Standing along the corridors of one of the lower decks
was a long line of assorted Star Fleet personnel with bags
packed and mostly looks of irritation.  They had been
relegated to one small (comparatively) area of the ship, then
basically quarantined.  The regular personnel had no contact
with them and they were not permitted in other parts of the
ship without an escort.  Even though the need for extreme
security was carefully laid out to them there was still
enough complaining from a few to make the whole lot start
feeling discontentment.

    "I can't believe it, they keep us holed up in one area of
this enormous ship for the whole trip than they don't even
have the decency to use all of their transporters to get us
out of here quickly.  Its like first they don't want us here
than they don't want us to leave." The man sounding off was
one of the usual complainers.  He was a large, barrel shaped,
bearded human who was apparently some sort of expert in
weaponry but no one was quite sure since he boasted
proficiency in just about everything.
    "Mr Dolittel, why don't you bless us with your silence
for once.  We're finally getting somewhere and we still must
listen to you babble on."  The speaker was about ten places
down the hall from Dolittel.  She was a dark skinned humanoid
who could look Dolittel square in the chest.   She was slim
and well proportioned compared to a human female and wore the
yellow uniform and insignia of security.  She was not tall by
any means but was well muscled.  She had a high forehead
reminiscent of a Klingon but wasn't one.  Her long black hair
was pulled into a braid and hung down the middle of her back.
    "Commander Tarva, Sir, I didn't see you there." Dolittel
mumbled and turned back toward the transporter room.
Dolittel's griping had come to a halt, at least for a while.
    Tarva stood patiently with her satchel at her feet.  Her
stance was a classic military at-ease posture.  Though a Star
Fleet Academy alumni her up bringing and background on her
home-world was very strict military.  It was this strict
military background that helped her move quickly up through
the pseudo-military Star Fleet.
    She could hear the constant hum of the transporters in
the room ahead as the line slowly moved forward.  Suspicious
by nature and profession she could not help but feel they
were lined up like 'algots going to the slaughter'.

----------

    As the Enterprise's transporter room dissolved around
her, a new one took its place.  The room was extremely large
maybe ten times the size of Enterprise's if not larger.  Her
background immediately showed it self again as she figured
one could transport nearly a whole Kalonian battalion at one
time from here.
    "I told you, they could have transported us here in a
quarter of the time if they wanted to." of course Dolittel
would be the first thing she'd hear upon arrival.
    Standing in front of the control panel for this section
of the transporter was a average hight, slightly balding
human with long, black-gray hair pulled back in a pony tail.
The man was wearing a loose fitting black uniform with no
visible sign of rank but some standard Star Fleet insignia.
The uniform had several large pockets on the jacket and more
on the pants, even on the lower parts of the legs.
    The shoes seemed out of place with the obvious utility of
the uniform, they were soft low cut with a sole that could
barely be described as firm.  It occurred to Tarva that these
were not standard for the uniform but were in fact boot
liners for a pressure suit.  The realization made her smile
and think "I'm going to like this man".
    A man in white coveralls of a construction worker stepped
forward and asked for their I.D. cards.  These he handed to
the man in the black uniform.  The man looked at each card
and though it was obvious he had done this with every person
who had come aboard he still actually read at least the name
on each card.  It was not as if he were looking for someone,
it was as if he were trying to match everybody's name and
face the first time by.
    "Welcome aboard" he said as he handed the cards back to
the man in the coveralls.  "I'm Captain Anthony," the hum of
another portion of the large transporter could be heard next
to them. "please follow this gentleman he'll show you to your
quarters.  Be patient, this ship is still under construction,
some things aren't working yet and your also going to have to
share quarters with more personnel than they were designed
for until others are ready".  As they gathered their
belongings and stepped off the transporter a woman in white
coveralls asked the new arrivals on the other transporter for
their I.D. cards.
    "Commander Tarva." the captain said as Tarva turned to
exit with her group.
    "Yes, Sir." she said facing the captain and coming to
attention.
    "Please report back here after you get settled."
    "Yes, Sir." she repeated as the captain turned his
attention to the new batch of I.D. cards, the transporter pad
she was just on hummed with new arrivals.  Many people would
have thought Captain Anthony rude with them or at least curt.
Not Tarva, her only impression was that this man was
extremely busy.
    Too much was happening around Tarva for her to fully
appreciate it.  Workers in different styles of the white
coveralls worked all around, bunches of optical cord hung
from open ceiling panels, sparks flew from welding
torches..still under construction was an understatement.
    Tarva also thought of the captain's order, to report to
him as soon as she was 'settled'.  She wasn't quite sure how
soon this man expected her, she'd just have to do things one
at a time.  The first would be to unpack then find her way
back to the transporter room.  She still couldn't help
wondering what the Captain wanted with her, perhaps he had an
assignment for her.  It would have to be important to signal
her out, perhaps Chief of Security.  This wasn't too much to
expect since she was Chief of Security on the Eclipse.  Even
if it was an escort ship it was still a responsible position.
What ever it was, it had to be one of the top security
positions, her background was too extensive to be simply
standing guard on the transporter room.
    A cabin door slid open and the man in white said that
there was room for one more in these quarters. "and remember"
he said "these are just temporary until the rest are
completed."  Somehow, Tarva found herself standing at the
front of her group, so she stepped in.

    "Do you believe this, they have eight of us crammed into
what is obviously meant for four.  This is a freaking
enlisted barracks.  What kind of chicken outfit is this
anyway?"  The all too familiar voice came from what was
apparently the head.
    Tarva walked over to the one bunk that was slightly
separated from the rest, it was, without a doubt, the prime
real estate of the room.  All other occupants were at their
own bunks, the only other empty one was a built in top bunk,
the least desirable in the room.  Tarva picked up the
equipment already on her bunk of choice and dropped it in the
middle of the room and put her own in its place.  The other
occupants in the room were Dolittel's regular companions but
they said nothing, just did their best to ignore her.
    A chime sounded on one of the walls and a name appeared
on a computer screen.  "That's mine." one of her room mates
said and got up to retrieve a stack of folded black cloth
from a drawer that came out of the wall as he approached.  He
then joined Dolittel in the head.
    "What's that?" She asked, somebody had to say something
eventually.
    In response, a tall blonde haired woman sitting on the
far side of the room tossed Tarva a laminated card.

Welcome aboard the U.S.S. Vigilante.

--- There will be a mandatory meeting for all personnel at
    0830 in shuttle bay 1.  This should give all a chance to
    get settled.  All crew assignments will be handed out at
    this time.

--- Ship's uniforms are available from the replicators in
    each room, just program required size.  Standard Star
    Fleet issue boots are appropriate. (a slight wait may be
    necessary, full power is currently not on line)

--- Please make yourself as comfortable as possible,
    as soon as more quarters are finished they will be
    assigned.

Tarva checked her time piece, 0600, they had plenty of time
to get the whole crew over from the Enterprise even at the
current rate.
    "Who put my stuff in the middle of the floor?!" Dolittel
bellowed as he emerged from the head wiping water from his
face with a small towel.  He was already wearing a black
uniform identical to what the captain had.  His shoulders
filled the doorway and his hair brushed against the top of
the frame.  His gaze then shifted to the bunk he had claimed
with his gear.
    Tarva smiled slightly and said "I honestly think you'll
be more comfortable on one of the regular beds, these
temporary cots are quite lumpy".
    Dolittel looked at his friends and, for a moment, it
seemed as if he would stand up to Tarva.  Instead he picked
up his bags and threw them up on the empty bunk.  "What are
you doing here, Sir?" he said to Tarva.
    "Everyone must make sacrifices, Mr. Dolittel." She
responded.  Then said "Computer".
    "WORKING" replied the generic female voice.
    "Commander Tarva requesting complete ship's uniform" she
then gave size and other particulars.
    "Your going to have a wait we've all placed our orders
and only two have come back so far." said the tall blonde.
    Just then the chime rang again and another of the gang
said that it must be his.  As he approached the drawer he
looked at the screen and saw Tarva's name flashing.  "This
things fouled up." he said "It says here it's the Commander's
stuff." and gestured toward Tarva.  He held up the pants they
were too small for anybody in the room except for Tarva.
    "Thank you." she said and took the bundle to the head.
She stood in the door way looking inside.  The crew member
who had just went in to change came out immediately.  He was
half dressed and wore only the baggy uniform pants and black
tank top type under shirt.  The rest of his uniforms he had
obviously gathered quickly and had them bunched under one
arm.
    "There's got to be some mistake, this thing's got the
rest of us qued up in the same sequence we placed our
orders." said the Lieutenant by the replicator.
    "Typical of this place," said Dolittel "even the computer
doesn't know what the hell it's doin'.  But don't worry, I'll
get things straightened around soon as they let me get to
work."

    Tarva stood in the restroom in front of a full length
mirror her yellow standard uniform lay in a pile near her
feet.  She looked at herself in the mirror.  All she was
wearing was a tight black tank top and matching mid-thigh
shorts.  On her right shin was strapped a black sheathed
knife, with what appeared to be a bone handle and flat black
blade, obviously not regulation.  She studied the scars
visible on her shoulder, arms and lower legs.  Many a human
doctor had offered to remove the scars for her but none
seemed to comprehend the pride she took in them and the
battles they represented.
    She looked closely at her left cheek and neck, there was
a fine line, were a scar should be, extending from above her
left eye down her cheek and neck to her shoulder.  An over
zealous human doctor had meticulously repaired this wound.
For all the years humans had been in space, they still
treated all cultures by human values.  It had never occurred
to him that a Kalonian would view a scar such as this
differently than a human.  She, however, couldn't feel too
bad towards the doctor since he served on the star ship that
rescued her from the escape pod after the Eclipse was
destroyed.

    Commander Tarva had been aboard the USS Vigilante exactly
30 minutes when she walked into Transporter Room II to report
back to Captain Anthony.  The room was empty of new personnel
only the captain and the workers were there.  Most of the
workers were busily doing something with both the transporter
pads and the control panel.  Captain Anthony looked concerned
as he studied the output on a tricorder a skinny man in a
white uniform was showing him.
    Anthony looked up at Tarva as she walked in and smiled at
her.  "Welcome back Commander," he said "I hope you found
your quarters acceptable for the time being".
    "I don't expect I'll be spending a lot of time there,
will I?" she said as she walked up to him and stood at
attention.
    "Commander, as you may have suspected, my current staff
is quite slim, in fact before today I was the only crew
assigned to the Vigilante to arrive.  That leaves me in the
unique position of selecting my own staff out of a relatively
small pool of volunteers.
    "I have gone over the records of all personnel assigned
to the Vigilante and personally selected the assignments for
each crew member.  Most decisions were easy, someone is a
navigator or an engineer, they have specific rank and
basically fall into place.  Top command staff is never that
easy, however, Chief Engineer, Chief of Security and others
require a little more intuitive thought." He paused to check
the skinny man's tricorder again.
    "This is it," Tarva thought, "he wouldn't be telling me
all of this if I wasn't getting Chief of Security."
    "The reason I'm telling you this" he said turning his
attention back to her, "is that I had a difficult choice to
make for Chief of Security.  A man named Simon Norton is
boarding as soon as we get this thing fixed.  He's been head
of security on three different Star Ships most recently on
a Galaxy Class which he is giving up to volunteer for this
mission.  I know this man, he has no desire for any other
command position.  He is one of the best when it comes to
security."
    Tarva could feel her world shaking, she had been so sure
of getting the position, it never occurred to her that
someone with such credentials would volunteer for a blind
suicide mission like this was rumored to be.
    "I know this may be slightly disappointing to you
Commander." this was a major understatement and he seemed to
know it.  "I couldn't, however, put someone with your record
and diverse background in an ordinary position. That is why I
have chosen you as my First Officer.  Congratulations."
    "Thank you, Sir." she managed to utter in complete shock.
He had done this on purpose, set her up for the fall pushed
her over the edge, then caught her at the last millisecond.
This man had a vicious sense of humor, she was going to
really enjoy working with him.
    "Now Commander we have work to do.  One of the positions
I haven't filled yet is Chief Engineer we have several
qualified personnel," Captain Anthony pointed to the mess
around them in a sweeping gesture "I suppose now is as good a
time as any to make that decision.  Your first assignment
will be to get this mess working and give me a call when your
ready to continue the transfer process."
    "Sir, why doesn't the Enterprise just transport the
remainders?" Tarva asked as she took in the whole transporter
room.
    "In order to keep the minimum distance we need the power
of both transporters and these two pads are the only ones on
this ship that currently work.  Now decide on a Chief
Engineer and get this thing working.  We've got to have it
working by 0700 if everybody's going to make the meeting."
with that, Captain Anthony left the room with eight white
coveralled workmen looking at Tarva.
    Before the door had slid completely shut First Officer
Tarva's hand was on the intercom "Lieutenant Commander
Dolittel, report to Transporter Room Two immediately".

----------

    Transporter Room II was soon filled with Tarva's
roommates plus a few others.  Dolittel's feet stuck out from
an open, access panel under the transporter pad.  His cursing
could be heard across the room.  He slid himself out and sat
up.
    "What the hell is this thing?" he said "I've never seen
circuits like this."
    "It is state of the art in transporter technology." came
a woman's voice from an open transporter room door.  She was
a medium height brown haired humanoid.  A slight ridge along
her upper cheek bones making her eyes appear sunken was the
only obvious nonhuman feature. She wore the standard white
coveralls of the other construction workers.
    "Doctor Cembera, I should have known you were behind this
mess."  Said Dolittel as he stood to greet the new arrival.
"If this thing is your doing, where have you been while we've
been trying to get it back on line?"
    "I was detained in engine room one installing a new style
dilithium crystal chamber." she said as she approached the
troublesome transporter pad.  She then turned to Commander
Tarva who had been running diagnostics at the transporter
control panel.  "First Officer Tarva, I'm Crystal Cembera
chief engineer in charge of construction of the Vigilante.
I'm glad you were finally able to join us here at TE-4."
    "I'm glad to finally be here." Said Tarva "Now if you
could help my Chief Engineer get these things on line."
    Doctor Cembera looked at Dolittel with a slight grin and
said "That shouldn't be too hard".
    Dolittel and Cembera obviously had a history but this
didn't seem to stop her from ignoring Dolittel as easily as
everybody else did.
    Doctor Cembera started running a diagnostic on the
transporter while pointing out certain details of the new
technology to Dolittel.  "The main idea is to boost the
effective range three to four times."
    "This is a great step forward", Dolittel said "you've got
the largest transporter room mockup I've ever seen".
    "The next supply ship should have the parts we need to
get all three transporter rooms working properly." Doctor
Cembera said ignoring Dolittel's comment's "The technology is
so new, it's taking quite a while to get the chips made."
    "Then how in the world did you get these two pads to work
if your still waiting on the chips?."
    "I had to make my own chips,"
    "That's probably what failed." Dolittel muttered.
    "and is why we only have two pads working." she said
still ignoring his comments.  "It was a long and exhausting
job, I can only guess that something came loose." Doctor
Cembera crawled under the pad and disappeared into the
workings.
    She soon emerged from under the pad and handed Dolittel a
blackened, fist-sized component.  "Both pads were down, so I
figured it had to be power related since they each run on
their own computer circuitry." She said as she reached into a
panel that opened from a near by wall.  The panel contained
several different kinds of parts, obviously spares.  She then
retreated back under the transporter pads.
    When she came back out she said "OK, fire them up".
    With that, Dolittel pressed a couple of buttons and the
transporters lit right up.  "Well," he said "Looks like I've
got a bit to learn before I can be an effective Chief
Engineer".
    "Well don't worry, you seem to have a good teacher."
Tarva said.
    "And quite a while before we'll even be ready to begin
space trials." Cembera added.  Then said "Come on John, I'll
give you a tour of your engine rooms".
    "There's more than one? And what's this about a new style
dilithium ..." Dolittel could be heard saying as the door
slid shut behind him.
    Tarva frowned as she realized Dolittel just walked out
with out being dismissed.  As more people arrived, she would
have to make sure proper Star Fleet regulations were
maintained.  She then pressed the intercom button "Commander
Tarva to Captain Anthony, transporters back on line, Sir."
    "Thank you Commander" he replied "I'll be right there.
Please inform Enterprise that we're back on line.  Out".

----------

    Tarva's tall, blonde room mate was working the
transporter controls, it turned out she was a top rated
operator, when it happened.  The last group was transporting
from the Enterprise when there was a general abort warning
issued from engineering.  The warning was almost immediately
followed by a massive power surge.  If it wasn't for Chief
Swanson's reflex action to the warning all eight of the
personnel in transport would surely have been lost.  She was
able to  reverse the beam before the surge got through the
transporter.
    The surge did catch personal pad number one.  The result
pulled the person out of transport in a crimson flash.  The
crew had no chance to cover themselves from the resulting
gore.  The whole transporter room was immediately splattered
in red.  On the pad, lay a writhing mass of tissue and bone
with blood spurting from what had once been organs.
    Transporter Room II immediately emptied with the
construction workers and crew racing for the doors.  Many
were losing their last meal on the way, others slipped and
fell in the blood.  Chief Swanson, Fist Officer Tarva and
Captain Anthony were the only ones to hold their ground.
    Captain Anthony and Chief Swanson had gone ghost white
with shock, Commander Tarva looked to the Captain for
instructions, all he could say was "Get rid of it".
    Tarva walked over to a security panel removed a phaser
and pointed it at her former crew member.  Her only thought
as she pushed the trigger was "I wonder who it was".  It was
exactly 53 seconds since the alarm sounded.

----------

    Captain Picard sat in his ready room with the Image of
Captain Anthony on the monitor in front of him.  Anthony had
several drops of blood on his face and he looked slightly
ill.  Behind Anthony, a worker in red stained white coveralls
was cleaning blood off a wall.  The view was so tight on
Anthony, the worker was only occasionally visible.  "What
ever happened there" Picard thought, "had to have been unlike
any transporter accident I've ever heard of.  What ever new
technology they're using on this project has to be radically
new and dangerous."
    "According to my records, Ensign Shertz was to have been
my primary navigator."  Anthony was saying "Now, I am without
anybody who is currently qualified for the position.  Captain
Picard, I'm aware that a ship like the Enterprise is likely
to have several officers qualified to fill this position..".
    "Captain Anthony," Picard said "Are you suggesting that I
assign one of my junior officers to your project?".
    "Not at all." Was the reply "I was merely suggesting that
there may be someone in your crew qualified for this
position, who also falls under the other criteria, willing to
volunteer if given the chance."
    Picard thought for a second then said "I'll put the
request before all qualified personnel."
    "I'll trust your decision, let me know when or if you've
found a navigator for me.  Anthony out."
    The screen immediately went black and Picard sat staring
at the silence for a minute then said "Computer list all
ship's personnel qualified as navigator for a star ship."
    "WORKING" the generic female voice said then immediately
displayed a list of over 30 names.
    "Now delete all personnel who are married or have known
living family."

    Three names remained on the list:
                  Commander Data
                  Ensign Janice O'Malley
                  Ensign Ro Laren

    Captain Picard sat and looked at the three names neatly
printed on the black screen.  Who would it be?  If they knew
the mission of the project they would all jump at the chance.
That, however, was against regulations, all he could tell
them was that it is an extremely dangerous mission, perhaps
even a suicide mission.
    If any of these three officers knew they were one of only
three qualified for this project, once again, they would
all certainly volunteer.  Picard decided to post a general
notice to all thirty from the original list.  Perhaps by some
slight chance the only one he felt he could replace would
volunteer.  If not, he would cross that bridge when he came
to it.  This was a strictly volunteer mission and he could
not make anyone in anyway feel obligated to volunteer.
    Within minutes of posting the notice, there was a signal
at the door.  It was Commander Data.
    "Sir," he said "by your notice I believe I am the most
logical choice to fill the navigator position.  Unless, you
count Lore as a living relative.  I know that Star Fleet does
not recognize him as my next of kin."
    "Data," Picard Said "I was expecting you, I tried to
figure out a way to turn down your request without giving
you what little more information I have about the project.  I
decided, however, that to properly satisfy you I must fill
you in with what little more information I have."
    Five minutes later Data left the ready room fully
satisfied that it would be extremely hazardous for him to
transfer to this project.  As he left, he passed the red
haired Ensign O'Malley on her way to meet with the Captain.
It occurred to him, that she too was on the list of qualified
navigators.

    This was too good to be true, Janice thought as she
walked in to see Captain Picard.  A chance to transfer to a
secrete project, a dangerous mission this had to be good.
No more boring star charting, no more hauling diplomats
around, no more Ensign Ro taking over for her every time it
was just getting interesting.  When the tour ended, she would
surely be assigned as primary navigator somewhere.
    "Sir," She said almost before the door closed behind her
"have you had any volunteers for the navigator position?"
    "Yes, just one," he said "however, upon close scrutiny of
his record we decided he was not appropriate for the
assignment."  Picard sat back and watched her face light up
with excitement.
    "Sir, I respectfully request a transfer."
    "Ensign O'Malley I feel it is my obligation to tell you a
little more about this mission." Picard said "The notice has
always stated hazardous duty, however, since you are
approaching this as a last minute replacement I think you
should know that most consider it to be a suicide mission."
    "Sir, this is a suicide mission?" O'Malley said quite
taken aback.
    "No, I did not say that. I said that it is so hazardous
that the few people who know about it consider it a suicide
mission."
    "What do you think of it sir?" she asked still a bit
confused by what Captain Picard was trying to say.
    "If it works, it will be well worth the costs." he said
"All else I can say is that I have a personal interest in the
success of the mission."
    Picard took a deep breath and looked at the beautiful
young woman standing in front of him.  Her large gray eyes
looked back at him expectantly.  Finally he said "If your
still interested I'll arrange transportation.  Go start
packing your gear."
    "Thank you sir." she said and snapped to attention.
    "Dismissed." he said.
    Ensign Janice O'Malley turned sharply and exited the
ready room.  As she left, Captain Jean-Luc Picard looked at
her personal file that was on the screen during the whole
conversation.  On it was noted the time and circumstances of
her adoptive father's death at Wolf-359.
    "It looks like we all have a date with destiny some time
in our lives." he said to the closed door.

----------

    It was finally happening, she was getting to look on the
other side of a forbidden horizon.  Janice could feel great
apprehension though.  Stepping into the unknown was always a
bit scary.  She could feel her pulse race with anticipation
as she packed her few belongings.
    Being a third string navigator on any ship never rated
the larger quarters.  Ensign O'Malley, however, was a woman
of few possessions.  Vega-5 if nothing else, had taught her
to approach life as a minimalist.  She had very few
belongings and really didn't care for a larger billet.  The
last thing she packed was an old style picture in frame.  It
was a picture of her father and her, taken during her first
visit to Earth.  She was still young maybe fifteen earth
years, too old to be considered a child but not yet quite a
woman.  They were standing in front of some ancient ruins in
a country her father claimed his family name originated.  She
wrapped the  picture carefully in a uniform and placed it in
her case.  Of her few possessions, this would always be her
most treasured.
    She wondered how she would transfer to her new
assignment, the survivors of the transporter incident had
been transpoted by a very odd looking shuttle.  She wondered
if they would send it all the way back to get her.  She
wasn't really sure what had happened with the transporter,
only something had gone wrong on the other end and someone, a
navigator, had been killed.  They did not expect to have the
transporters working anytime soon.  At the current distance,
the Enterprise could not transport her on its on.
    Just then Chief O'Brien's voice came over the intercom
"Ensign O'Malley, please report to transporter room 3, with
your gear.".
    "I thought," she said to Chief O'Brien upon entering
transporter room 3 "that we were unable to transport until
they got they're system back on line."
    "I thought the same thing." He said "but they gave me new
coordinates for a different transporter.  Apparently they had
shut it down for being in an unused area.  They brought it
back on line to help tie up the loose ends before the
Enterprise's departure."
    Janice hesitated stepping onto the transporter pad.
Though she had done this many times before, it had never been
immediately following a fatal accident.  She looked to
O'Brien and he just smiled and nodded his head.  So she
stepped onto the pad stood at attention and waited.
    The Enterprise's transporter room dissolved around her
and was replaced by a smaller more spartan room. In front of
her, behind the transporter controls stood a man in white
coveralls.  "Welcome to T E four space dock." he said "We'll
be ready to transport you to the ship in a few minutes".
    To her right Janice could see a large space station style
window.  From her vantage point she thought she could see the
hull of a ship.
    "Would you like to take a look at your new assignment?"
the man asked.
    Ensign Janice O'Malley put her bags down in place and
stepped down to the window.  Outside was something she had
never seen, a star ship in space dock.  This was unlike any
star ship though, a small older style saucer section dwarfed
by four new Galaxy style warp engines.  The saucer was
attached directly to a bulbous main body without the usual
neck lifting it away.  The impulse engines appeared to be
raised up from the main body just behind the saucer.
    There were other things wrong, the color wasn't the
standard star fleet white, it was more of a dull gray.  There
was no name or number designation anywhere to be seen and she
had a clear view of the top of the saucer section.  There
were other anomalies: antenna pods, miss placed orifices etc.
that were not indicative of either the old style saucer or
the new style engines or anything else for that matter.
    "What is it?" she asked the man now standing next to her
also admiring the ship.
    "She's called the U.S.S. Vigilante" he said.
    "What kind of name for a star ship is that?" she asked
not really expecting an answer.
    "Don't ask me," he said "all I do is work on
transporters".
    "I hope you weren't running the transporter last time."
she said with a slight smile.
    "No, Sir." he said "Besides, that was caused by a power
surge from engineering."
    Just then there was a signal from the intercom.  "Whelp,
the Captain's ready for you, time to report for duty" he
said.
    "I guess so." she said as she returned to the
transporter.
    The small transporter room dissolved from view and this
time was replaced by a much larger one.  In front of her
stood a man with long gray/black hair that was thinning on
top and was pulled back in a pony tail.  He wore a slightly
baggy black uniform with several large pockets.  Though he
wore no obvious insignia this man must be in some kind of
authority.
    Once she could move again she stood at attention and said
"Ensign Janice Louise O'Malley reporting for duty, Sir."
    "Welcome aboard the U.S.S. Vigilante, Ensign." the man in
black said "I'm Captain Anthony, did you bring your personal
file?"
    "Yes, Sir." she said and handed him a small computer disk
from an outside pocket of her bag.
    "Very good" he said as he slipped the disk into the
tricorder he was holding.  "Now, leave your bags here, they
will be delivered to your quarters.  Right now, we are late
for an already postponed meeting.  Please come with me."
    As they left, she finally noticed that there were several
people in blood stained white coveralls vigorously cleaning
the transporter room.  Another in clean coveralls approached
her bags as soon as she left the transporter pad.  She also
noticed that a personal pad to her left was shattered and
blackened.  She could feel nausea catch in her throat, what
ever happened here must have been  horrifying.
    All through the corridor the men in white coveralls were
hard at work.  Many areas where exposed to the superstructure
some she could see down through several decks of framing.  At
one point they had to edge along exposed girders to keep from
falling to the next deck.  This was the same area a work man
had given them each a hard hat to wear while passing through.
    "If we weren't so late I would have taken the safer but
longer route." the Captain said as they edged along the beam.
    When they finally arrived at the shuttle bay it was
filled with more than a hundred black uniformed crew.  Ensign
O'Malley never thought she would feel out of place on a
Federation star ship while in uniform.  Now, while surrounded
by the crew dressed in the baggy black uniforms, she
definitely felt out of place.
    The Captain walked her up to a short dark skinned woman
with a high Klingon type forehead and a long braid of hair
down her back.  "Ensign O'Malley," he said this is my First
Officer, Commander Tarva.
    "Commander Tarva" Janice said in greeting.
    Commander Tarva nodded and said "At least you've lasted
longer than our last navigator did."
    "Your attention please." the Captain said into a loud
speaker.  "Once again I'd like to personally welcome you
aboard the FULTON class star ship the U.S.S. Vigilante, the
most unique craft ever conceived of by Star Fleet.
    "I'd like to say is to remind you of the mission you
volunteered for.  Our intent is an extended  hazardous duty
mission.  We may be on tour for several years or more, with
no or little contact with Star Fleet.  In fact, many analysts
believe we will not be heard from again.  Now I want you to
reflect on this, because in a few minutes when I tell you our
exact destination there will be no transfers or shore leave
off the Vigilante until after the mission is completed.
    "If you have second thoughts leave now, collect your
belongings and report to transporter room 2.  The Enterprise
is currently standing by to start you on your way back to
your last assignment."
    There was a stirring among the crew, as this sunk in.
Several groups discussed this amongst themselves.  Finally
three individuals stepped forward and announced that they had
second thoughts.
    "Very well," Captain Anthony said "I want to thank you
for the dedication that got you this far.  You will be
returned to your previous position and no mention of this
incident will appear on your records.  I must also remind you
to never talk about this project, all details are considered
top secret.  Also, anybody who persists in questioning you
about it must be reported to Star Fleet Security.  Finally,
you must never even discuss this project amongst your selves
once you leave this ship, it never happened is that clear?"
    "Yes, Sir." they said together.
    "Dismissed." Captain Anthony said and watched the three
exit the shuttle bay.
    "As some of you may have guessed, the U.S.S. Vigilante is
not a ship of peace," Captain Anthony began "it is a ship of
war.  We are at war, that's right we are at war and the
Vigilante was designed to take the war to the enemy.  In
order to hasten the construction of the Vigilante, parts were
used from the destruction of the first battle.  The enemy we
face is one of the strongest and most irresistible the
Federation has ever faced.  The enemy we are going to meet is
the Borg."
    At the revelation a slight murmur rose from the crowd.
Finally a voice came from the crowd.  "Sir, how do we expect
to accomplish this, over 30 ships were destroyed fighting
just one Borg cube.  Now you plan to attack them with just
one ship made up of junked parts.  What have we gotten
ourselves into?"
    Captain Anthony smiled at this it was just the reaction
he expected, since it was the same one the project committee
got when they originally approached Star Fleet with it.
"Listen to me," he said "the superstructure maybe made of old
parts, however, the technology put into this ship is cutting
edge.  In every area you will notice parts and functions you
do not recognize, this whole ship has become the proving
ground for radical new ideas.  It will be our job to test and
use these new ideas.
    "As we already know, as we use the new components of the
Vigilante things may go wrong.  You have all been accepted
for this mission because you are some the best.  I am
confident that working with the designers of the Vigilante
you will all learn the new technology and be become as
confident as I am in our ability to actually pull this off.
    "I am sure you are also aware of the Borg's ability to
gain knowledge from our computers and prisoners.  Therefore,
it is imperative that we do not unnecessarily discuss
functions of our departments with other departments.  There
are new designs in all areas of this ship.  Technology we
know that the Borg do not attribute to the Federation.
    "Another unique feature of the Vigilante is the computer
systems.  Though there is a central computer for the day to
day needs of life on a star ship, each area has its own
separate computer system.  These systems are totally
inaccessible by the central computer.  This does create a
problem, a galaxy class star ship can actually be operated
with as few as five crew members when in automated mode.  The
Vigilante needs over fifty highly trained crew just to keep
it maneuvering in warp."  This was a bit of an exaggeration
but he wanted to keep them on their toes or what ever it was
that they may pass for toes.
    "By now, all crew have received their assignments, you
are to work with construction personnel preparing The
Vigilante for duty.  I know there is a lot of work left to do
and little time to do it, but I am certain if we work
together we can have the ship ready on schedule.  I also
expect that you should know this ship inside and out by the
first space trials.  Now lets get to work.  Dismissed."

----------

    When Simon Norton had entered the meeting room, he was
last, as usual.  He had a great propensity for being late.
It never seemed to be of his doing, however.  It wasn't his
fault that the transporter failed twice before he ever got
aboard the ship.  The last time, it left him stranded on the
Enterprise.  The trip to the Vigilante was an eye opener.
The transport sent to retrieve them was by no means a
shuttle.  It was a troop carrying 'drop' ship designed for
rapid deployment of personnel to transporter protected
landing zones.  Only Star Fleet's few anti-terrorist units
carried this kind of ship and even they carried standard
shuttle craft.
    It was strange that he was the Chief of Security on a
Star Ship that he had no idea what design it was.  He didn't
know its class or it's layout.  He knew it was something
different, the large size of the shuttle bay told him that.
Also the narrow corridors and small rooms suggested something
different about the Vigilante.  He only wished that the drop
ship had windows.
    Captain Anthony was sitting in a small room with his
command staff when Commander Norton finally got around to
joining them.  The room like the rest of the ship was painted
in gray and other drab colors.  In the middle of the room was
a large dark gray table with straight edges but slightly
bowed to fit with the bow of the room.  Around the table were
ten high backed chairs securely fastened to the floor, they
were also equipped with emergency restraints and belts.  In
front of each place was a computer terminal sunken into the
table.  At one end of the room was a large display screen
obviously for presentations to the group.  The outside wall
had several windows looking over the port side of the saucer.
Along the top of each window the bottom of the blast shields
could be seen.  The shields all over the ship would snap shut
during red alerts and when in 'silent running'.
    In the early days of Star Fleet before advances in
deflector shield technology blast shields were installed on
ships meant for some heavy action.  If this ship was destined
to confront the Borg it would need them.
    The small amount of time Norton had been on duty he had
spent his time reviewing the files of the other officers.  If
he was to properly over see security he would have to know
with whom he was working.  Now sitting next to Captain
Anthony in the Command Staff Meeting Room (or known simply as
the Command Room) was First Officer, Commander Tarva and
across from her was Lt. Commander Dolittel, Chief Engineer.
The fourth in the room was a tall female humanoid in the
white coveralls of a construction worker, she was sitting
next to Dolittel.  Commander Norton had been unable to find
any information on the construction personnel in any of the
computer files.  This had distressed him for he felt it best
to know everyone he had dealings with.
    "Ah, Commander Norton," The Captain said, "glad you were
finally able to join us.  I believe you should be familiar
with everybody here, except Doctor Cembera.  Doctor Cembera
is the chief engineer in charge of design and construction of
the Vigilante."
    "Doctor." Commander Norton said and slightly bowed his
bald head towards her.  He then took a seat close to the
door.
    "This meeting is intended to fill you in on some of the
specifics of the U.S.S. Vigilante." said Captain Anthony and
pushed a button on his computer terminal.  On each terminal
and on the main screen a detailed picture of the ship
appeared and began to rotate slowly.  "I believe I'll leave
this lecture to Doctor Cembera".
    "Thank you Captain" Doctor Cembera said as she stood up
and approached the screen.  "The U.S.S. Vigilante is designed
with three main features in mind: speed, fire power and
stealth.  To quickly build the ship we decided it necessary
to use some space frames deposited at Memory Alpha.  Most of
the parts used were in fact taken from the ships destroyed by
the Borg.  We have, however, completely refitted the ship
with new technology from the material used in the hull to the
drive systems.
    "I'll start with the hull, the original 'skin' of all
components was removed and replaced with a new composite
material.  This material is much less penetrable and
detectable by all known or encountered scanning devices.
This makes us virtually invisible on long range scanners and
appear much smaller to closer range sensors.  Windows however
can not be made of the new material so all windows have been
fitted with old style blast shields.  If power to the main
deflectors is ever lost windows without the blast shields
would be extremely vulnerable to detection.
    "It is a known fact that Star Fleet has a policy against
the use of cloaking devices on its ships.  This policy does
not, however, preclude the research in cloaking technology.
The main goal in cloaking research has been to develop
adequate detection of cloaked ships.  This research added to
what we have learned from the Klingons I believe has created
the most sophisticated cloaking system ever implemented.  The
technology has been installed in the Vigilante.  Together
with the new hull material we call the combined system A.C.T.
that is Advanced Cloaking Technology.  With A.C.T. the
Vigilante should be completely invisible to the Borg and all
others for that matter."
    Commander Norton interrupted "If Star Fleet has a policy
against cloaking how did we get a whole ship built around
cloaking technology?"
    "Star Fleet regulations have very little influence over a
ship that officially does not exist." responded Captain
Anthony.
    Norton sat back to contemplate the implications of what
the Captain just said while Doctor Cembera continued.
    "The next obvious feature of the Vigilante" she said "is
the number of warp drives.  With new technologies and
alignments these four engines should jump the Vigilante to
warp 9.6 from sub-warp speeds in less than a second.  You
should then be able to hold warp 9.6 for an extended period
of time.  Next.."
    "Excuse me Doctor." Lt Commander Dolittel said.
    "Yes, Mr. Dolittel." Doctor Cembera said with a bit of a
frown as if anticipating what was coming next.
    "I led a team that did extensive research on these new
technologies and alignments as you call them." Dolittel said
"We concluded years ago that they create uncontrollable worm
holes around the ship using them."
    "Is this true?" Commander Tarva asked.
    "Yes." Doctor Cembera replied.
    "Your saying you've built this whole ship around theory
that has already been proven to be flawed?" was Tarva's next
question.
    "This was to be my next topic," Doctor Cembera said "if I
may continue I think I'll be able to answer your questions".
    "Please continue Doctor." the Captain said knowing what
was coming next.
    "Lieutenant Commander Dolittel's conclusions were
absolutly correct." she stressed Lieutenant knowing how much
that elusive promotion irritated him.  "This technology does
tend to produce an uncontrollable worm hole.  Since taking
over what Mr Dolittel's team started, the elimination of the
worm hole effect has plagued me and other scientists.  Not so
long ago I was discussing this problem with a colleague in
front of my young daughter and my daughter actually came up
with the idea that has made this all possible." she said
proudly.
    Doctor Cembera's audience looked at her blankly. She
continued on ignoring the looks. "What my daughter asked was
why don't we control the worm hole.  To tell you the truth
this had never occurred to me mainly because travel through
the warp generated worm hole can be extremely unpleasant."
    With the word unpleasant a couple of people took a second
look at the restraints on all of the chairs and began to
realize what Cembera was getting to.
    "These worm holes can also throw a ship many light years
off course if not further.  If we can control the worm hole,
and get it to deposit us were we want to go, even with the
unpleasant effects, it could be quite useful.  In other
words, we could get the worm hole to place us in minutes
where it may take us a year at warp nine to reach."
    "You keep using the word, us, are you planning to join us
on our planned journey?" it was Dolittel again.
    "I use the word merely as a figure of speech, Sir."
Doctor Cembera answered crisply.  Then Continued "We have
implemented the new drives in an older test ship, dubbed the
U.S.S. Fulton.  Once again like all technology we're using,
it involves complete replacement of the main systems plus
extensive reworking of other systems.
    The results were extremely promising, the Fulton ended up
within the desired sector.  There was, however, a bit of a
side effect caused by the worm hole, a great deal of the
outer hull was ruptured in transit.  This, however, should
not effect the Vigilante, since the technology has been
refined a great deal and the hull and shield strengths have
been greatly increased.
    "Finally, there have been a number of modifications in
the shield generators, weapons, and transporters to make the
Vigilante actually several generations more advanced than
even a Galaxy class Star ship."
    "Don't you think your being just a bit over optimistic
with that last statement." Dolittel said as Cembera reclaimed
her seat.
    "And" Tarva interjected "do you think only a couple of
generations are enough to defeat the Borg where they live?".
    "Allow me to answer that." Captain Anthony said "Our
mission is not to defeat the Borg but rather to collect
extensive information about them in the hope of being able to
defeat them the next time they arrive in our little arm of
the galaxy.  Okay, any other questions?"
    Captain Anthony and Doctor Cembera began to field
questions about different aspects of the mission and details
of the ship.
    During the meeting Commander Tarva examined Commander
Norton.  He was a medium sized humanoid a bit shorter then
Captain Anthony but with a solid build.  His size was due as
much to genetics as it was to an obvious attempt on his own
part to maintain a highly muscled physique.  She could see
highly defined muscles reaching up to his neck, it even
appeared that his face was muscled.  His ears were pointed
and his forehead slightly pronounced like a Romulan's.
Tarva's background told her that this man was at least part
Romulan.  Her background also told her that the
Romulan/Vulcan traits were extremely dominant and all he
needed was one hiding somewhere in his family tree for him to
show these kind of features.  Another oddity about this man
was his totally bald head.  It was obvious, at least to her,
that he shaved his head which was not consistent with any
cultures she could readily attribute to him.

----------

    Ensign Janice O'Malley piloted the gray Drop Ship through
one of the Tau Epsilon far asteroid fields.  Next her sat a
very cocky acting young man in white coveralls named Picback.
They were both properly strapped into their seats but his was
turned slightly and leaned back so he could place his feet up
on an empty area of the control panel.  "I still don't see
why I'm out here flying this can around."  she said "I'm a
navigator not a shuttle pilot."
    "First of all, this is not a shuttle or a can." Picback
said with a smile. "It's a highly sophisticated troop drop
ship.  Second, from my understanding they don't have much
need for a navigator on the Vig for the time being.  Third
all navigators should be trained as pilots and these are the
only things to pilot or navigate for the time being.  I guess
their just trying to make you earn your keep."
    Just then something besides rock appeared on the
scanners.  "That must be our target," Picback said "remember,
with the cloaking he can't see us so keep your distance.  We
don't want him running into us after dropping off our
package."
    From their position they could watch the tug disconnect
from the cargo pod after placing it in close proximity to a
large asteroid.  When it lifted away they could clearly read
it's name and number, U.S.S. CHANDRASEKHER NCC-3923-C.  Their
sensors told them it was doing an intense sensor sweep of the
area.
    "What's he doing that for?" she asked Picback.
    "His instructions are very strict,  he's not to leave the
cargo if he detects any other activity in the area."  He
replied as if extremely bored with the whole process.
    Ensign O'Malley continued to track the tug as it
high-tailed it out of the system.  Once the tug had entered
warp she began to approach the cargo pod.  Picback now sat in
normal position and began to work his own controls.  The Drop
Ship slowly approached the giant cargo pod and was soon
dwarfed by it.
    "This thing looks longer than the Vigilante" said
O'Malley as she moved ever closer to the pod.
    "Well, they were originally designed to haul a couple
Galaxy style warp engines around in, with room to spare.
This should be our last delivery."  Picback said as he
powered up the magnetic cargo couplings that had been
retrofitted to the Drop Ship.
    "What do you suppose is in it?" Janice asked her
companion trying to make conversation.
    "You know the regs," he said with a smile "we're only
allowed to discuss matters directly related to our jobs.  I
can make small talk with you about anything to do with a drop
ship or flying one.  Believe or not we are even allowed to
discuss details specifically related to any current
assignment."
    With this dissertation Janice laughed and said "You could
have just said, 'I don't know'."
    The couplings clanged into place slightly jolting the
ship.  "OKay," Picback said "ease the power up slowly this
tub is a lot more powerful than a wimpy star fleet shuttle
and remember we have a lot more mass now."
    "Mr Picback, I am not fresh out of the Academy." Ensign
O'Malley said slightly irritated "I have maneuvered the
Enterprise through an asteroid field on more than on
occasion."
    "The Enterprise's deflector shields probably gave you
quite a bit more room for error, huh?" Picback returned just
as they jerked forward. "What was that?"
    "Just slipped the accelerator a bit." The Ensign said.
    "How can you, slip the accelerator a bit?" Picback said
worryingly "You better let me have control I've done this a
lot more than you have."
    "Don't worry." Janice said with a slight grin Picback
didn't notice "I can handle it." and pulled back on the
control stick to start the maneuver to arc them out of the
asteroid field.  "But you know, it's been quite some time
since I've piloted anything with a control stick."
    "Why didn't you tell me before we hooked on to this
monster?" Picback said trying not to show the panic he was
starting to feel.
    "I tried to." Janice said "But you said I had to earn my
keep.  Now's its too late, huh?" she sounded as if she was
trying not to panic which didn't help Picback's new state
of mind.
    A proximity warning began to flash on the scanner
console.  Ahead of them they seemed to be about to ram a
rather large orange asteroid.  Picback locked his arms and
legs and shut his eyes bracing himself for the collision,
which never occurred.
    "What happened?" he said after more than enough time had
passed for them to have hit the asteroid.
    "You were right," Ensign O'Malley said with a smile "this
thing does have a lot wider turning radius than I'm used to."
    They than passed between two extremely close asteroids as
the proximity warning flashed again.  Before Picback had time
to react again, they were clear of the field.
    "Whew," Janice said and feigned wiping sweat from her
forehead. "I didn't think we'd make that last one".
    All Picback could do was sit there and hope he didn't
draw the red head as a partner again.
    The huge cargo pod sped through space with no obvious
means of propulsion as the Drop Ship remained cloaked. When
it approached TE-4 Ensign O'Malley had placed their cargo
into a predetermined orbit.  The velocity and orbit had to be
precise inorder to eventually get the pod in a matching orbit
with the space dock.  The idea was to place the pod in a high
orbit and brake it down to the matching orbit with the dock.
She had been braking since passing the orbit sphere of TE-5.
Now she had to drop into a high orbit and begin heavy braking
hopefully the space dock would catch up with them as they
reached its orbit.
    An untrained observer would have thought the procedure an
easy one.  As the cargo pod entered it's high orbit, it began
making increasingly lower orbits over the space dock.
Eventually, the pod just seemed to drop into space over the
space dock.  It was then maneuvered into its place in the top
of the framing directly over the Vigilante.
    Picback and O'Malley had been gone just over two days and
four hours when they maneuvered their ship into the shuttle
bay.  As soon as the ship came to rest, the airlock door flew
open and Picback jumped down, fell to his knees and kissed
the deck.  A man in a black crew uniform stood at a nearby
control console watching the scene and looked at Picback as
he walked by.
    "Don't ever, ever put me in a ship with her again. She
was doing barrel rolls on our way in." Picback said to the
shuttle bay chief as he passed.
    Shuttle bay Chief Taragoma then watched Ensign O'Malley
ride the slowly descending Drop Ship stairs as they lowered
into place.  Her combed back short red hair was slightly
messed from the long trip and she carried her uniform jacket
casually over one shoulder.  As she walked up to him, she put
her jacket on and fastened it properly.  When she reached him
she handed him the ships log.
    "What was wrong with your technician, Ensign?" he asked
her.
    "I have no idea, Sir, I guess he's a little high strung."
she said with a bit of a smile.
    Taragoma checked the log and looked up at the young
woman standing before him.  "Okay, dismissed" he said.
    "Thank you, Sir"
    The Chief smiled as he watched her walk out and thought
"I knew we'd have problems with cloaking these things during
routine missions."

----------

    Captain Anthony stood in a large, round dimly lit
chamber, around him, workers in their white coveralls went
about their business.  The room appeared unfinished, there
were massive connecters and mountings everywhere.  There
were, however, no loose wires, everything was large and
solid.  In six evenly spaced places on the floor were large
gear shaped areas almost two meters in diameter.  The bottom
of these gears consisted of what looked like thousands of
optical connections.  The walls were basically smooth except
for six  large L shaped channels.
    Along one wall area, were four round doors about a meter
and a half in diameter.  In the middle of each door was a
sturdy looking wheel for manual opening.  The doors were to
escape pods.
    The ceiling of the room appeared out of place.  It was
not made of the same composite materials of the rest of ship
and seemed laid across the walls rather than built into them.
None of the lighting was a permanent part of the room, it was
all temporary work lighting.  Captain Anthony stood to one
side staring at the flat ceiling.
    The turbo-lift came up through a hole in the floor.
There were two such turbo lift channels in the room.  Both
had a cable net strung across them preventing anybody from
inadvertently stepping into the open hole.  The rough out
side of the turbo lift was visible as its single door slid
open.  Commander Tarva moved the net aside and walked up to
Captain Anthony.
    She stood at attention when she reached him and said
"Captain.".
    "Yes." he said in a second, after coming back from his
thoughts.
    "Sir, Construction advises that the Bridge is included in
the new shipment." Tarva said.
    "Well I'd hope so." Anthony said with a smile "Tell them
to get it installed as soon as possible, a star ship without
a bridge, is like a phaser without a trigger."
    Tarva flipped open what looked like an old style
communicator and relayed the Captains orders.  They both then
stepped into the turbo lift Tarva had ridden up.  "Where to
sir?" she asked the captain.
    "How long till they expect to start moving the bridge
into place?" Captain Anthony asked before answering her
question.
    "They estimate everything should be ready in about six
hours." she said.
    "Deck Six." he said to the lift then looked at his time
piece.  "Commander would you care to join me in supervising
the installation of the U.S.S Vigilante's bridge?" he asked.
    "Yes, Sir".
    "Meet me at Air Lock Two at 1730 and bring your pressure
suit gear".
    "Very good, Sir".  She said as he stepped off the lift at
deck six.  Commander Tarva then looked at her own time piece,
1230.  Five hours, there was nothing pressing needing her
immediate attention.  It would be a good time to go back to
the cabin and rest a bit.  She had gotten a minimum of rest
since leaving the Enterprise.  She did need some.
    "Deck eight" she said to the lift.

----------

    Tarva sat in her cabin in a short black silken robe with
long sleeves.  When sitting, the bottom of the robe seemed to
barely touch the seat of the chair.  The black sheathed knife
was still strapped to her right shin and had a few water
droplets on it.  Tarva was combing her long wet hair to one
side of her head and down in front of her.  She was leaning
forward with legs slightly spread allowing the hair to fall
to the floor between her bare feet.
    This is how some of her roommates found her when they
came in.  Tarva looked up at them and scowled to herself
"I've got to get my own cabin".
    "Commander, we didn't expect you in so soon." said Chief
Swanson.
    "Even The First Officer can take some time off once in
awhile." she replied stressing the title.  "I thought you'd
be working with the new shipment."  she said to this whole
group of engineers while still combing her hair.
    "That's my intention, Sir." Dolittel said formally as he
broke out his boot liners and other gear for his pressure
suit.  "The rest, however, are transporter engineers, and
have to wait till we get the bridge out of the way."
    Dolittel saw Tarva continue to frown as the others
continued to make themselves comfortable.  "Perhaps," he said
"They could begin preparing transporter room three to receive
the new chips when ready."
    "That sounds like a good idea, Mr Dolittel" Tarva said
finally losing her frown but not smiling.
    The others, being greatly out ranked, didn't even
question weather this was an order or a suggestion.  They
just picked themselves up and headed back out the door.
    "Mr Dolittel," Tarva said as he was about to be the last
to leave.
    "Yes, Sir." he said.
    "Would you inform all of our roommates that I have no
appointments until 1730." she said curtly and immediately
turned back to brushing her hair.
    "1730, yes Sir." he repeated and walked out.

    "What did she mean about 1730?" one of his companions
asked Dolittel.
    "It means that we can't go back to our own quarters until
then." another one said.
    "It means," said Dolittel "that you should find something
to do until 1730."
    "And why did you say we could prepare the transporter
room for the new chips?  When we've just spent the last
twelve hours doing just that." said Chief Swanson.
    "We've got every right to use our own cabin, no matter
who our roommate is.  What right does she have to kick us
out.  Aren't we suppose to be tolerant until the other cabins
are ready, even the first officer?" said the first.
    "You just don't get it." Dolittel said "How long have we
been here?  Four days? A little more? How often have you seen
Commander Tarva in the cabin?"
    The three just looked at each other and shrugged.
    Dolittel continued "I'll tell you, before just now, twice
including the first day.  In fact, that bunk hasn't been
touched, I know, remember, I made it and no two people make a
bunk exactly the same way.  That means she's been on the go
since we got here and your complaining about twelve hours.
Now I want you to go keep yourselves busy until 1730.  After
that you have eight hours to get some rest, because at 0130
hours you are going to begin installing the new transporter
chips.  Is that clear?"
    "Yes, Sir." they said in unison.
    "Very good and first make sure you spread the word to the
other three about 1730."  Lt Commander John Dolittel did not
like pulling rank on his team but occasionally, he had to
remind them this was still a military mission.

----------

    Smoke filled the bridge and stung Tarva's eyes and lungs
but she recognized the unmistakable cube on the view screen
to her right.  Everything began to shake while in the
distance a partially recognizable star ship exploded.  A hull
breach alarm sounded and a strong wind began rushing by her.
Tarva looked down at her captain laying in her arms.  Blood
poured from his mouth and his chest made a sucking sound
every time he tried to breath.  Tarva was backing towards an
open escape pod dragging the Captain with her, just as they
entered the pod a blinding flash blew them against the back
of the pod....
    The familiar rhythm of a Kalonian march sounded in
Tarva's head.  She sat up in the dark cabin trying to
remember where she was.  With her movement the lights came on
just enough to outline the room and the march faded.
    As the ghosts cleared Tarva reached for her time piece
and said "Lights, intensity 3. Volume level 5"
    The lights came up enough to read the watch and the march
came back up to pleasant thump.  She carried an old Kalonian
time piece so she needed light to read it.  She then had to
do some quick math to convert to standard.  Once again
inconvenienced by human arrogance, they always seemed
convinced that everybody went by Sol-3 time or at least
should.
    Tarva smiled, she knew no human thought of their home
planet as Sol-3.  Most called it Earth and many not born
there called it Terra.  Tarva used Sol-3 because it was the
Federation's generic name for Earth and the class designation
humans used for almost all other planets even those of major
Star Fleet allies.  She figured it appropriate that she used
Sol-3 since many seemed insistent in calling Kalon, Antri-4.
    It was 1700, just what she had set the alarm for.  Tarva
took a load of clean clothes from a drawer and walked into
the head.   When she looked in the mirror half her face was
gashed open from above the left eye down her cheek to her
neck and blood pour from the wound...
    Tarva sat up in bed totally soaked in sweat screaming.
She sat in the dark cabin trying to remember where she was.
With her movement the lights came on just enough to outline
the room and the march faded.

----------

    Commander Tarva met Captain Anthony at Air Lock Two suit
room at precisely 1730.
    "Have you gotten much rest since coming aboard?" he asked
her.  "I know you've been extremely busy."
    "I've gotten enough, Sir." she replied as she opened her
bag.
    The current version space suit had two main layers the
first was a gray jump-suit with bio-tech connections.  It was
worn over the standard tight shorts and tank top under
uniform.  The jumpsuit even had built in feet which then fit
into the boot liner.  These parts and the glove liners which
attached to the jumpsuit where carried in the bag.
    Tarva saw that the captain had noticed her knife which
she had to take off to fit into the jumpsuit.
    "You know." he said "General Star Fleet regulations do
not allow personal weapons to be carried while on duty."
    "Yes I am aware of the regs, Sir," She said "but there
are also the amendments for preservation of Federation
cultures."
    At that his face lit up "Ah yes," he smiled "the Kalonian
Simtar, I should have known." he than held out his hand and
said "May I?"
    This was a very presumptuous thing to do.  Anybody who
knew about the Kalonian Simtar would know it would only be
voluntarily surrendered to a very close friend or family
member.  Traditionally, only parents, children and mates
would be considered 'very close'.
    The Captain must have known this, when she handed it to
him, he looked extremely satisfied.  He carefully pulled it
from the sheath, just far enough to see the full blade.  The
blade's finish was flat black while the edges had been honed
to a bright polished black.  One full side was sharpened and
about a third of the other side while the tip curved up
toward the shorter edge.  He snapped the blade back into it's
sheath and handed it back to his First Officer.  He had it
less than thirty seconds.
    "I hear they have become extremely difficult to find even
on Kalon." he said as he activated his suit lowering
mechanism.
    "That's true, Sir." Tarva said as she stepped into the
bottom half of her suit.  "The ebon metal the blade is made
of has become extremely rare.  While the demand has
increased.  The return to traditionalism has made it
extremely difficult for the families like mine who have
always maintained traditional values."
    Anthony had to wait while he lowered his helmet into
place and secured it.  He then turned on his intercom and
waited while Tarva's suit was secured.  Before putting on the
suit gloves she placed the Simtar in her bag with the rest of
her uniform and placed them in a locker.
    While she was doing this Captain Anthony asked "What is
the handle made of?""
    Tarva hesitated, this Simtar was old enough to be from
the era when Klingon bone was used.  She knew, however, that
it would be best not to let this get around.  "The handles
have been made from many differant materials through the
years."  Tarva finally responded.
    "Was it difficult to find?"  Anthony continued.
    "Actually, Sir," Tarva said "this Simtar was given to my
father by my mother, when she asked him to be her mate.  I
inherited both of their Simtars after their bodies were
recovered."
    "I'm sorry," Anthony said "I didn't realize. I shouldn't
have brought it up."
    Tarva stood up straight, looked at her Captain through
her helmet and said proudly "It is a great honor on Kalon for
mates to die together in battle."
    Captain Anthony knew he was digging himself into a hole
so he merely secured his gloves gave her a brief salute and
motioned her toward the air lock.
    At the air lock door, they ran systems checks on their
suits.  They then checked with Construction Control to
coordinate the vital signs check.  Next, they backed into
large white jet packs.  Their ship's black suits fit securely
into the construction white space walk packs.
    When the outer airlock door opened, Tarva stepped out and
fired the maneuvering jets with the Captain right behind her.
She never really appreciated the size of a star ship till she
walked from one.  Down the ship to her right the port warp
drives swept up and down away from the body.  The massive
dull gray hull made her feel extremely insignificant, like an
insect.
    "Lets go." Captain Anthony said and accelerated to the
cargo pod attached across the top of the upper girders.
    Tarva followed without hesitation, it was some minutes
before they reached the top of the pod.  They landed on a
black girder and looked toward the pod.  "This is the last
shipment?" she said more as a statement than a question.
    "That's right." Captain Anthony said and pointed to a
large round container being hoisted out of the cargo pod.
The pod's whole top had split down the middle and opened as
two large doors.  The round container had been fitted with
several small rockets along the side and was being slowly
lifted from its place.
    "And that," he said proudly "is my bridge.  There are
also the chips we need to get the transporters operational,
some parts for the anti-matter chambers, and some blocks of
raw hull material."
    "It seems there should be more than that in there."
Tarva said just trying to make conversation.
    Anthony turned toward her so she could see him smile.
"There is." he said  "We are also receiving a shipment of new
space suits and multi-function phasers."
    Tarva looked down at what she was wearing and said "I
thought these were the newest model?".
    "They are, but they were designed for a peaceful mission,
they are not suitable for us."
    Tarva smiled behind her face plate and said "Finally, a
suit designed for a warrior."
    "That's right, a warrior on a ship that does not exist
and is crewed by ghosts."
    The pair stood over the saucer section looking down into
the open hole they had stood in only hours before.  The plate
that had been the roof was now attached to the girders below
them.  The bridge was slowly maneuvered into place over the
hole.  The channels on the sides of the hole had to match up
perfectly with pegs on the side of the bridge.  If all had
been manufactured perfectly this would insure all connections
would fit correctly.
    When the bridge was started into the hole and the pegs
rested on the edges the side rockets were removed and rockets
on the top were used to rotate the bridge into place.  After
the side pegs came over the proper channels, large clamps
grabbed the pegs and pulled the bridge down into the very
snug fitting hole.  When it reached the bottom of the
channels the bridge rotated a meter to lock into place.
    Once it was locked in, a systems check was conducted to
test the connections.  A collar then expanded from the ship
to seal the slight gap left between the bridge and the ship.
A cap of composite material was then fit over the bridge to
blend it smoothly with the rest of the saucer section.
    "Lets go take a look at our bridge." Captain Anthony said
stepping off the girder and accelerating toward the
Vigilante.
                to be continued...........



                   T H E   V I G I L A N T E

                               II

                        "The Shakedown"
....
Have ever you stood where the silences brood,
    And vast the Horizons begin,
At the dawn of the day to behold far away
    The goal you would strive for and win?
Yet ah! in the night when you gain to the height,
    With the vast pool of heaven star-spawned,
Afar and agleam, like a valley of dream,
    Still mocks you a land of Beyond.
                                     .....
                   Robert W. Service
                   "THE LAND OF BEYOND"




    Commander Tarva and Captain Anthony stood in front of the
turbo lift door waiting to enter the bridge.  Commander Tarva
spoke into her communicator with Construction while waiting for
the bridge to be pressurized.  When life support was established
the turbo lift door opened.
    Captain Anthony and Commander Tarva were alone when they
stepped onto the bridge.  Only the emergency lights shining down
from hidden recesses illuminated the bridge.  The major color
scheme was gray with black accents.  There seemed to be more
chairs then expected, all tightly wrapped in plastic.
    Before they could make it half way around the bridge turbo
lift two opened allowing the construction crew in.  They
immediately crawled under the control banks and opened other
panels.  Slowly, computer screens began to light up and the main
lights came on showing the whole bridge.
    Tarva and Captain Anthony without saying a word to each
other began tearing the plastic off the chairs.  Each station
had a chair and was well designed for total access.  The current
trend in star ship bridges was to have several stations as
standing positions, no chairs available.  In the Vigilante this
could cause a problem if they ever actually tried to use the
controlled worm hole effect.
    The chairs had high backs with emergency restraints and
belts.  The bridge had the standard layout with Captain in the
middle of the Bridge.  Pilot and Navigator in front of and to
either side of the Captain.  Next to the Captain on the left was
the Security station.  On the other side of the Captain was the
First Officer station.  The five stations in the middle of the
bridge each had a wrap around counsel.  The Captain's chair also
had special controls on the restraint arms.  The Captain and
First Officer's consoles were designed mainly for ship wide
communications they could also be quickly reconfigured for all
other bridge functions.
    Tarva tried her chair out for size.  The cloth seat  seemed
to form to fit.  The worker laying under her console stood up
and pushed a button on it.  The console lit up and Tarva
recognized it as a standard console with emphasis on
communications.
    She pushed a button and said "Attention, all bridge crew
please report to the bridge."

    As the last of the Bridge shifts showed up, the last of the
workers was leaving.  More than fifteen people stood on the
front of the bridge in front of the main view screen.  Many
appeared to have been gotten out of bed, they were yawning and
didn't have perfectly groomed hair.
    Captain Anthony sat in his chair and waited while First
Officer Tarva did a roll call of the crew before him.  Behind
him, stood Chief Engineer Dolittel and Chief of Security Norton.
    "Sir, all present." Tarva said and took her seat next to
him.
    The Captain stood up and said "Welcome to the bridge of the
U.S.S. Vigilante.  Until now the only bridge we've had use of
has been the incomplete emergency bridge.
    "Your next project will be to start running total
diagnostics on your stations.  You will also be responsible for
absolute knowledge of your station.  Your next mission will be
to form a working knowledge of all other stations plus an in
depth knowledge of at least one other related station.  I want
this bridge busy until we launch.  In three days we will begin
running simulations.  You have until then to at least start
learning your stations.
    "One more thing, Lieutenant Commander Dolittel." Anthony
said and turned to face him.
    "Yes, Sir." Dolittel said coming to attention.
    "I have decided that because the Vigilante has a high
average command rank, the position of Chief Engineer should be
held by someone with a grade higher than Lieutenant Commander."
Anthony paused and watched Dolittel squirm a bit then continued.
"As you all may remember, the standing policy is to maintain
rank utill the end of the mission.  This leaves me in an awkward
position since I do not wish one of my most important positions
to be occupied by a light commander.  I have two choices either
second guess one of my policies or second guess my First
Officer."
    He stepped toward Dolittel and said "I'm sorry," he paused
"I cann't second guess my First Officer, congratulations
Commander Dolittel."  Captain Anthony finally smiled and shook
Dolittel's hand.
    "Thank you, Sir." Dolittel said, for once at a loss for
words.
    Captain Anthony turned back toward the crew and checked his
time "It appears to be time for the third shift, the rest are
dismissed."
    Short, to the point meetings seemed to be Captain Anthony's
style.  The crew would have to get used to being pulled out bed
for meetings and other whims of the Captain.


    Tarva was the first after the Captain to congratulate
Commander Dolittel.  She then said "I have some more good news
for you.  It's time to move."  Tarva then reached over to a
nearby computer console and punched up a ships diagram.
    "Finally." Dolittel said with a wide smile.
    "I have assigned the newly finished section here by
engineering to you and all of your personnel.  It will be your
responsibility to assign quarters."
    Dolittel looked at the diagram and said "They're all
doubles, surly there is enough room on this ship to give the 200
crew here their own billets."
    "Actually there are two singles in the section I have
assigned to you.  As for the rest of the available housing we
are expecting more crew to transfer after the first space
trials.  In fact, the bunk rooms we have been staying in will be
mostly for their use."
    "You mean they finished the rooms we didn't need first, what
were they thinking?"
    "They were thinking that it would take almost half the time
to get a fewer number of larger quarters ready. Thus allowing us
to board earlier."
    Tarva then smiled and said "Now if you'll excuse me, I have
some packing to do."

-----------

    Tarva's new quarters were near the middle of the saucer
section near the Captain's.  They were small compared to any
officer quarters on the Enterprise.  There were two 'rooms'
separated by slight dividers.  Tarva wearing her black robe sat
cross legged in the middle of the bed staring at the mirror on a
near by wall.  She was not looking at her self but reflecting on
the nightmares that had been plaguing her.
    When the explosion on the Eclipse threw her and the Captain
into the escape pod it had ripped her face open.  She barely had
the strength to hit the eject mechanism before the final
explosion ripped the Eclipse apart.  The Captain's body had
protected her from most of the explosion but left her trapped in
the escape pod with it.  She then drifted for several days
before being picked up by the New Aukland.
    When she was rescued, she was unconscious and stayed that
way for quite sometime.  Her face was bandaged and she was
extremely weak when she finally woke.
    The realization she was the only survivor still plagued her.
As chief of security, it was her duty to do all she could to
protect the crew of the Eclipse.  She knew they were up against
an irresistible force and that the destruction of the Eclipse
was not her fault.  The honor bred into a Kalonian warrior,
however, haunted her every night.  She was being torn apart by
the loss of her ship and the honor of returning the war to the
Borg.

-----------

    Commander Norton watched First Officer Tarva approach the
entrance to the cargo bay.  It had been several hours since the
meeting on the bridge.  Tarva had expressed interest in the
shipment of the new pressure suits.  Now that he was about to
start putting them together she wished to be present.
    First Officer, Commander Sashon Tarva was an interesting
colleague.  After his arrival on the Vigilante Commander Tarva
had approached him about his position.  She said that she knew
that he was much more qualified for First Officer.  The Captain,
however, was under the impression that he had no aspiration for
a higher position and would much prefer Chief of Security.  If
the Captain were mistaken, Commander Tarva said that she would
talk to him about correcting the error.  Norton had no desire
for any higher command position, his goals were different than
most Star Fleet officers.

    "Sir," Commander Norton said when Tarva arrived "My crew has
begun assembling the first pressure suits."
    "Very good, Commander." Tarva said "Lets have a look".
    When they entered the cargo bay, they found it filled with
shipping containers.  Several stood open while black uniformed
security and engineering crew pieced together several pressure
suits.
    The suits like all other aspects of the ship had an
unfamiliar design.  Instead of the standard ribbed design they
had flat almost armor like panels on the chest and back.  All
panels were solid instead of flexible ribs.  They also had very
pronounced hinged joints.
    Commander Tarva had expected the suits to be black to match
the current color scheme of all the other uniforms.  These
suits, however, where a dull gray like the hull of the ship.
    Tarva walked around one of the suits, looked at Norton and
said "They look like something out of the dark ages."
    "They are." came a voice from the cargo bay door.
    "Sir." Tarva and Norton said together, it was Captain
Anthony.
    "As you said, we needed pressure suits for warriors."
Anthony said as he walked up to them.  "The NM-1's are more than
pressure suits, they are suits of armor."
    The Captain turned to one of the crew and said "Is one of
these completed?"
    The crewman pointed to one of the suits hanging on a
shipping container.
    "Have you completed complete systems diagnostics on it?"
    "It was the first thing we did before unpacking any of the
other suits, Sir" was the reply.
    Anthony than turned to Norton and said "Your phaser
please."
    Without hesitation Commander Norton handed the Captain his
phaser.  Captain Anthony then made a point of showing everybody
he was setting it to maximum power.  This would be enough to
vaporize just about anything smaller than a standard shuttle.
    "Stand back" he said and poured an extended beam into the
suit.  The suit and container jumped back from the force of the
blast.  Heat poured from the suit and the cargo container
buckled from it.  All present had to cover their eyes and faces
from the heat and bright red glow.
    The heat subsided quickly but the cargo container continued
to glow.  Anthony turned to one of the technicians and said "Run
a new diagnostics on it.  I also want to see a copy of its
internal atmospheric record."
    "Aye, Sir." said the crewman and pulled out a special NM-1
diagnostics tricorder which had come with the new suits.
    After a couple of minutes of running the diagnostics the
crewman said "All systems check out in perfect working order."
    The atmospheric report showed that the temperature inside
the suit had risen a total of 10 degrees Celsius during the
phaser blast.  It might have been uncomfortable but it wouldn't
have been harmful.
    "These suits are made of a similar material as the hull of
The Vigilante." Captain Anthony said giving the phaser back to
Norton.  "The material is different than our hull, it has a much
denser cell structure and disperses much more energy as heat.
The reason our hull is not made of it is that it takes ten times
the current hull material to make the suit material.  To protect
even more the suits also have built in deflector shields."
    Anthony then pointed to the life support pack.  "The NM-1
suits have an extended life support range of up to five days.
They have built in maneuvering jets, they're suppose to be even
better than the space walk packs we use now."
    Commander Norton decided to speak up "If these suits are
made of basically the same material as the hull does that mean
that scanners will not penetrate them?"
    Captain Anthony smiled and said "So they tell me, anybody
want to find out?"
    With very little discussion it was decided that Commander
Norton should be the first to try on the new suit.  It took a
while to configure a suit to fit him, but it would have to be
done eventually.  After suiting up he walked around and tested
the joints.  The suit fit extremely snug on him, but this was to
compensate for vacuum of space.
    "This isn't to bad" he said "It's much lighter then the
standard suit."  He than began studying the control panels on
one of his lower arms where's the cloaking button?" he said with
a wide grin.
    "They weren't able to reduce the circuitry to install in the
suit by shipping time."  Anthony replied seriously.
    "You mean they were trying to cloak our pressure suits too?
They really were pulling out all of the stops." Tarva said.
    "Actually if you want to be precise these pressure suits are
not intended for the large portion of the crew currently on the
Vigilante." Captain Anthony said.  "The only ones who will be
issued the NM-1 are command staff and security.  The rest will
be issued to the new crew we will be picking up after the space
trials have begun."
    He turned back to Commander Norton and said lets check the
standard tricorder readings.  The crewman with NM-1 diagnostic
tricorder replaced it with a standard tricorder.  After Norton
put on the helmet and lowered the face shield the crewman
started walking around him.
    The tricorder made it's usual buzzing and whirling sounds,
after a few minutes he said "The tricorder doesn't even pickup
the suit's energy pack.  It does, however, show a smaller solid
object like a rock of indeterminate make up, about a meter
high."
    Almost a meter was cut off Norton's height.  All present
were extremely impressed.
    "Now lets take a look at the new phasers..." Anthony said
and headed to a differant set of containers.
    They were breaking into the phaser boxes when Commander
Doittel and Doctor Cembera hailed Captain Anthony.  They
announced that the ship's cloaking was available for testing.
Captain Anthony agreed, he thought it was also a good time to
run scanner tests on the Vigilante.
    "Commander Tarva, have the scanner prepared Drop Ship
readied for a mission in two hours." Captain Anthony said.

-----------

    The Drop Ship swung around to face the Vigilante in its
space dock.  Ensign O'Malley had become the resident D S pilot.
She still insisted she was a Star Ship navigator, not a Drop
Ship pilot.  Nevertheless, here she sat with Captain Anthony
sitting in the co-pilot's seat the First Officer standing behind
him and the Chief of security standing behind her.  It was
enough to make even the most experienced Drop Ship pilot(if
there was one) nervous.
    Captain Anthony was busily working the scanners that had
been installed for this exercise.  He looked up and smiled, "I
read this side of the space dock structure without problem" he
reported.  "I can count every soul in Construction offices and
housing.  The structure on the far side of the ship appears to
be fuzzy.  From the scanners I would say that a small tug size
vessel may be in dock.  I, however, do not read any life forms
on the vessel."
    Commander Tarva smiled and said "A standard tug is less than
a quarter the mass of the Vigilante and only has two warp
engines.  Currently there are over two hundred crew and
construction personnel on the Vigilante."
    Tarva then pulled her oversized communicator out of one of
her pockets and said "Engage cloaking."
    "Acknowledged" came back Dolittel's voice.
    The Vigilante shimmered a bit and disappeared.  The girders
on the far side of the ship became visible.  The only odd part
were the few supports connecting the Vigilante with space dock,
they seemed to be cut off at mid point.
    Captain Anthony spoke up with an update from the scanners
"Scanners now show no presence of the Vigilante and clearly
define the whole space dock.  This is going to be a very
interesting mission."

-----------

    The dull gray Vigilante hung in the black girders of it's
space dock backed by the turbulent orange of TE-4.  On one of
the girders stood a lone figure in a gray pressure suit similar
in color to the ship.  All four warp engines glowed blue from
testing.
    Captain Anthony hadn't had time to look at his ship since
the crew boarded.  It was now two months later and this may be
the last time he would see the Vigilante from the outside.  They
were scheduled to begin space trials today.  After leaving space
dock they would not return to the Tau-Epsilon system, any
problems that came up they were required to fix on their own.
Because of this policy, all systems were being meticulously
checked before the trials began.
    "Preparing to release supports." came a voice from
Construction Control.
    "Acknowledged" Anthony said as he stepped off the girder and
fired his maneuvering controls "Vigilante, engage stabilizer
engines."
    "Aye, Aye, Sir." replied Commander Tarva.
    As Anthony came down over the top starboard warp drive he
could see the relatively small stabilizer rockets begin firing
while the supports from space dock were released.  The
stabilizer rockets were computer controlled to keep the
Vigilante in a relatively fixed position.  In this case the
fixed position was in relation to the space dock.
    "Commander Dolittel, what is our earliest estimated time of
departure." Anthony said to his suit's communicator when he
entered the air lock.
    "I can have us ready for departure in six hours" said
Dolittel almost immediately.
    "You have two." said Anthony with a smile.
    "I think we may be able to pull that off." was Dolittel's
smart reply.
    Captain Anthony knew that John Dolittel seemed to always
tripled his actual estimates.  Dolittel had said he started it
when he was in the Academy just to give himself room for error.
He than found that it made himself and his team look good when
they came in under their estimated times.  Now he just did it
out of habit, it had just become expected of him.

-----------

    Captain Anthony sat in his place on the bridge in front of
him to his right sat the red headed Ensign O'Malley who was
Picard's contribution to his crew.  Picard had made a good
choice in this one, she not only was a highly qualified
navigator but had proven herself a fine Drop Ship pilot.  She
also had something in common with many of her fellow crew, she
had a personal interest in the Borg.
    Ensign O'Malley's father, Doctor Peter O'Malley was killed
when the Borg destroyed his ship.  With eleven thousand
personnel killed and nearly forty star ships destroyed the one
encounter with a Borg ship touched all members of Star Fleet
personally one way or another.
    Captain Anthony reflected on how many of his crew came to be
on the Vigilante because of that one battle with the Borg.
Commander Tarva was the lone survivor of the Eclipse, Ensign
O'Malley lost her only family, and many others qualified for the
no family, no attachments, provisions of the mission for the
same reason.
    As he sat waiting for the launching of the United Star Ship
Vigilante, Captain Anthony felt extreme satisfaction.  He too
met all requirements of the mission thanks to the one battle
with the Borg and Locutus.  His last command the USS Nielsen was
destroyed in the battle.  He had been on Star Base A-6
recovering from a sever bout of Anturi Flu.  The medical
facilities on the Nielsen had not been adequate for his
recovery.  The Nielsen had just docked at Star Base and
transferred him to it's infirmary when the call came.  The
Nielsen was to join the armada in a last ditch stand against the
Borg.
    Captain Anthony was unconscious the whole time until the
Nielsen was destroyed.  When all life on the Nielsen ended,
Anthony woke up screaming.  They told him he screamed for an
hour after waking.  The reports of the defeat at Wolf-359 had
not yet reached Star Base A-6.  In fact, Anthony was not aware
he wasn't on the Nielsen.  The news of the destruction of the
Nielsen dropped him into a shock induced comma.  With the death
of the Nielsen his life ended too.  His wife, lover, best friend
was also his First Officer.  She was in command in his absence,
she would have faced the Borg in his place.  She had died
without him by her side as they had always promised each other.
After waking from the comma his hair started to come in gray.
Now just a few years later his jet black hair was almost all
gray.
    After the destruction of the Nielsen, Captain Robert Anthony
lost all desire to have anything to do with Star Fleet.  He
moved to the pioneer planet, Infiniti West and settled down to a
life of isolation.
    Infiniti West was a colony planet with an environment
similar to earth.  During the early days of colonization,
Infiniti West was settled by a group that spurned all
technology.  Their goal was to establish a colony based on the
pioneer life style of 18th century North America.  Infiniti
West's varied climates made it ideal for adventurers.  From
seemingly endless tracks of ancient forests to expansive hostile
deserts to mountain ranges that made anything on Earth look
puny.  Infiniti West had something for everyone.
    There was a small Star Fleet station in orbit and some
inconspicuous forts, that helped control visitors to the planet.
Their main function was as base stations for scientists studying
Infiniti West's immense ecology.
    Robert Anthony lived in a small stone dwelling he found in
the high mountain region of the main continent.  The cabin was
just below the mountain's tree line.  In the foot hills was a
small trading post catering to the local trappers and home
stedders.  For over a year he lived alone seeing only an
occasional trapper.
    His solitude ended when he came back from a hunting trip to
find two Star Fleet officers examining his cabin.  One was a
taller bearded man but the other gave away who they were, the
gold skinned android, Data, was the signature of the Enterprise.
    "Captain Robert Anthony?" said the android.
    Anthony dropped the carcass of a six legged furry animal
onto a stone table in his yard.  Then jumped down from his
horse.  The horse whinnied and backed a few steps from Data.
Horses had been scattered through out the stars from Earth and
they still seemed to know when something wasn't natural.
    "Captain is a Star Fleet title," Anthony said as he began to
walk the horse to it's carrel. "and Robert is what my wife
called me."
    "I'm William T. Riker First Officer of the U.S.S.
Enterprise." said the bearded man "This is Mr Data".
    Anthony put the horse in it's carrel and began removing the
saddle.  He turned to the two officers and said curtly "What do
you want with me?"
    Mr Data began relating their story, it turned out they had
been searching Infiniti West for several months.  A team had
finally been able to locate him when they found the small
trading post and heard of a loner in the mountains every one
called, Star Fleet.
    Thus began the drawn out negotiations as they tried to
convince him to return to Star Fleet.  The Enterprise had
already spent two months in orbit around Infiniti West with many
teams looking for him.  They now seemed quite intent on not
leaving until he agreed to come with them.  After more than two
weeks he rode his horse to the trading post, where he gave his
few possessions to the only person he thought of as a friend,
the merchant he did most of his business with.
    Riker, dressed in the local style outfit he had worn during
the search met him at the trading post.  Together they beamed up
to the Enterprise and Robert Anthony rejoined the elite rank of
Star Fleet Captains.

-----------

    "Captain, this is engineering, we're ready any time you
are." It was Dolittel in his usual informal manner.
    "Construction Control," Captain Anthony said "the USS
Vigilante is ready to leave the nest."
    "It's been a wonderful experience" came Doctor Cembera's
voice in reply.

    Doctor Cembera stood in Construction Control.  She watched
as the Vigilante slowly moved out from under her.  It had a
preset course of test maneuvers to run while leaving the system.
They had to make sure all the bolts were tight before trying the
warp drives.  Once they were out of the Tau-Epsilon system
though, they would never return.  Doctor Cembera had a tear in
her eye as if watching an only child go off to war.
    "Doctor," came a voice from beside her.
    "Yes."
    "Memory Alpha reports they are ready to begin shipping the
hulks you requested."
    Doctor Cembera continued to watch the Vigilante slide
silently away then said "Tell them to proceed."

-----------

    The trip out of the Tau Epsilon system was an anti-climax.
After so many hours of work few even knew they had even gotten
under way.  The ship performed flawlessly during the maneuvers
through the system.
    Before entering warp, Captain Anthony ordered the cloaking
engaged.  It was standard operating procedure that the Vigilante
run cloaked.  It would not do for anybody to get a look at her
while she remained 'Top Secret'.  The trip through the Tau
Epsilon system would be the only time they would run uncloaked,
while the cloaking was functional.  For the cloaking to function
the deflector shields only needed to be at 10% power.
    "Set course to Predetermined Test Coordinates three."
Anthony said.
    "Aye" Ensign O'Malley said while entering the course.
    "Warp one, engage."
    "Warp one engaged" said the middle aged human sitting in the
Helmsman's seat.
    "Engineering, how are we doing?"
    "I thought we were going to test this thing." said Dolittel
"Not just push her about."
    "Warp five, engage" Anthony said.
    "Warp five engaged" returned the Helmsman.
    There was no obvious difference between sitting in space
dock and traveling at warp five except the view screen no longer
showed TE-4 below them but the standard 'rushing stars' opticle
illusion of warp.
    The Vigilante spent the next week testing the engines for
extended periods of time below warp 9.6.  Finally, Captain
Anthony decided it was time to test the Vigilante's acceleration
to warp 9.6 from sub warp.
    "Sir, all hands report ready for acceleration test."
Commander Tarva reported.
    Once again Captain Anthony didn't expect to notice anything
special when they jumped to high warp.  He couldn't help but
wonder if they might sense something.
    "Sir, test coordinates set for warp 9.6 acceleration test."
Ensign O'Malley said.
    "Warp 9.6, engage" Captain said.
    "Warp 9.6 engaged." replied the helmsman than immediately
reported "Current velocity, warp 9.6"
    Anthony thought he felt a slight acceleration but nothing
substantial.  They achieved warp 9.6 almost instantly and the
Vigilante didn't seem to be effected in any way.
    "Engineering, hold current velocity and begin complete
diagnostic tests, on engines, all systems and ship's
structures." Captain Anthony said then headed to the command
room.
    Anthony immediatly began preparing a sub-space transmission
to a small colony world near the Romulan Neutral Zone.

-----------

    "Captain Anthony, Sir" came Dolittel's voice over the
intercom.
    "Anthony here"
    "All tests complete, the Vigilante has held warp 9.6 for
seven hours with no adverse effects."
    "Very good, prepare to come out of warp."
    Captain Anthony walked back onto the bridge, his crew was
busy running continuous high warp test.  "Helm, bring us out of
warp."
    "Aye, Sir".
    "Ensign O'Malley, Plot the best possible course to the
Romulan Neutral Zone, sector 5876.34."
    Ensign O'Malley pushed a few buttons on her panel. Then said
"Course plotted ,Sir."
    "At warp 9.6 what would be the estimated time of travel?"
    Ensign O'Malley pushed a few more buttons and said "Two
weeks, three days two hours, eighteen minutes.."
    "Very good," Captain Anthony said and took his seat.  "Set
new course as plotted, warp nine, engage."
    "Ensign O'Malley on present course what would be the
estimated time of arrival using controlled worm hole effect?"
    Ensign O'Malley turned to a second console that appeared
tacked on to her normal console.  After pushing several buttons,
looking at the display and repeating she said "If we are able to
cancel the Worm hole after exactly two minutes 43 point 7676543
seconds we should emerge in sector 5876.34."
    Anthony thought a second and said "How long is that figure
good for?"
    "Sir, taking into account our current speed and the size of
sector 5876.43, about 2 minutes.  After that the fractional
seconds would begin making a significant difference."
    "Recalculate the timing for fifteen minutes from now and
feed it to my station."  Anthony had configured his console to
control the worm-hole effect along with helm and navigation.
    He then pushed the worm hole warning alarm.  A loud claxon
began blaring from the ship wide intercom.  Another button shut
the claxon off on the bridge.  The view screen began showing a
count down to the controlled worm hole.  The bridge crew began
strapping themselves into their seats for the first time.  While
all over the bridge on duty and off duty personnel took their
own seats.  Many crew had been woke out of comfortable beds not
knowing what was going on.
    The view screens in each cabin announced the planned
maneuvere.  Each cabin also came equipped with Rough Duty chairs
usually built into a wall as part of the decor.  All chairs had
occupant sensors activated during the worm hole warning.  The
computer was able to report when all personnel were accounted
for.
    "Controlled worm hole count down initiated." Captain Anthony
said almost sarcastically after shutting the bridge claxon off.
    As Commander Tarva watched the count down approach zero she
couldn't help but think this could be their actual first step to
meet the Borg or it could all end right now.
    "Shields at Maximum." she heard Commander Norton report just
before she saw the view screen rush at her.  It felt as if she
was being crushed on a high gravity planet.  She could feel her
seat begin to wrap around her and heard a female voice begin to
scream.  In front of her Ensign O'Malley bucked against the
restraints and belts, it must of been her screaming.  Other
voices began to fill her head as the rest of the bridge crew
joined the chorus of screams.  She watched Ensign O'Malley start
screaming in pain and soon heard the new female voice.  Tarva
realized that she must have heard her own voice to begin with.
    As the count down on the view screen approached the shut
down point Tarva thought she could feel the ship bump or shift a
little.  The ship seemed to begin to fall away from her.  She
felt like she was alternately hanging from the restraint belts
and being pushed back into the chair.  The timer on the view
screen counted passed the set shut down point.
    The Vigilante seemed to tumble end over end through the worm
hole it's own warp drives had created.  The effect was no longer
controlled by the Vigilante.  Tarva knew something was wrong by
the change in the felt effect and tried to reach for her own
controls which proved at first quite elusive.
    After bringing up helm station she began issuing shut down
and stabilization commands to the drive systems.  Nothing seemed
to have any effect, finally, she started desperate maneuvers
including reverse warp.  Anything to break out of the worm hole.
When the Vigilante finally broke out,  the crew blacked out.
    Tarva woke to the sound of a moaning bridge crew.  The view
screen showed 3 minutes 22 seconds of worm hole effect.  The
other members were slowly regaining conciseness.  Tarva
unbuckled the straps and opened her restraints.  Ensign O'Malley
was already standing and stretching.
    Captain Anthony hit his intercom and said "Engineering,
Dolittel what the hell happened to us?"
    "Unknown, we're trying to determine that out now, Sir. "
Dolittel said groggily.
    Tarva saw Ensign O'Malley punching buttons on her console.
"Ensign O'Malley, report what is our present location?"
    "According to the Star Charts we're well within the
Romulan Empire."
    "I was afraid of that." the Captain muttered.
    "Bridge this is Engineering."
    "Go ahead" Tarva said.
    "Sir we'll have to shut down all power to shields and
engines so we can effect repairs to number three warp engine"
    "Commander Dolittel we are in the middle of the Romulan
Empire we may be needing the warp drives and shields.  Do we
currently have shields and cloaking?"
    "Yes sir, shields are at 40 percent and cloaking is
activated."
    "Do we have maneuvering capabilities?"
    "Engines one and two are on line engine four will remain
inoperative until engine three comes back on line.  Our current
sustainable top speed is warp 7 and the so called 'controllable
worm hole' is inoperative."
    "Ensign O'Malley, at warp 7 how long will it take to get to
our original destination?" Anthony said turning to his
navigator.
    The Ensign punched a few buttons and reported "Five weeks,
three days ".
    "and Warp 9.6?"
    Ensign O'Malley reentered her figures and said "One week
five days."
    "Engineering, what is the estimated time for repairs and
corrections to warp coil?"
    "We should be able to do it in three days." was Dolittel's
reply.
    Anthony thought for a bit and said to his first officer "If
we commence with these repairs we're going to need some place to
hide.  We don't want to be hanging in the middle of Romulan
territory with all systems off line.  No matter how well our
hull protects us from sensors."
    "Agreed, Sir, What do you have in mind." Tarva Said.
    "Since the Romulans may have detected our worm hole this may
not be the best place to hang out.  Ensign O'Malley is there an
uninhabited star system in this area?"
    "Sir, sensors show two systems in this sector, our records
of Romulan space are not detailed enough to give specific
habitation information.  One system, however, is a red dwarf
star and it is very unlikely there would be any colonies there
but there may be a science outpost."
    "Set course for the red dwarf system"
    "Course plotted and set" O'Malley said immediately.
    "At warp 7 what is our ETA?"
    "two days seven hours twenty three minutes, Sir"
    "Sir," Commander Norton interrupted "Romulan war bird
uncloaking about ten kilometers off port bow."
    "Have they seen us?" Tarva asked.
    "Not yet, they're apparently here to investigate the worm
hole.  They are doing intensive sensor sweeps of the area.
Weapons are unarmed and shields are at a minimum."
    Tarva looked at the image Norton had put up on the screen.
"If they were able to get here that fast we must be in a heavily
travel sector."
    "Agreed," Anthony said "set course to red dwarf system full
impulse.  Lets put a little distance between us before going to
warp.  We don't know how good their motion detectors are. Engage
    "Engineering"
    "Commander Dolittel here."
    "Commander, we will be in position for you to effect your
repairs in about three days"
    "Very good, Dolittel out."
    Anthony then turned to Commander Norton "Have they spotted
us yet?"
    "Not yet sir, the war bird is still directing sensors at the
area of the worm hole exit."
    "Very good, Helm, warp 7, engage".
    The Vigilante jumped to warp seven and headed toward the red
dwarf.

    There were no research stations or other habitats in the
system.  There were several small planets and a gas giant, the
vigilante dropped into a close orbit around the giant and tried
to hide in its electromagnetic aura.
    Engineering crawled into the warp engines to fix the bad
coil and test the other three.  The rest of the crew began
running extensive diagnostics of all systems.
    Commander Tarva's aversion to sleep began to catch up with
her.  Captain Anthony ordered her to her cabin until the warp
drives were back on line.  He made it quite clear that she was
not to return to the bridge unless ordered there.
    Tarva was wearing the under uniform shorts and tank top
while exercising in her cabin.  She had set up several gadgets
for more efficient exercise.  A chin-up bar was stretched
between the room dividers and a slanted sit-up board was in her
front room.  Her hair was rolled in to a bun at the back of her
head and she was soaked with sweat.  This is how Commander
Norton found her when he came to visit.
    "Your suppose to be resting." he said as she wiped sweat
from her high forehead.
    She looked around the room and said "I am relaxing."
then went into the head.
    "I don't think this is what the Captain had in mind." Simon
said as he dropped into one her chairs.  Because of their
similar experiences they had become fast friends.
    Simon heard Tarva taking a shower and had time to reflect on
the circumstances which brought him here.  He had spent his
childhood on a planet called Hellguard.  It was a planet the
Romulans occasionally dumped their half breed children born of
captives.  He was approximately twenty when he was found as an
emaciated stow away on a pirate freighter that had visited
Hellguard.  They put him to work as slave labor and it took him
nearly two years to escape to a Federation colony.
    His first task was to create a new life.  He started by
picking a new name.  He decided a human name would be as fresh a
beginning as he could get.  After many years he was finally able
to work his way to Earth and petition to the Academy for a
scholarship.  Thanks to the long life associated with being half
Volcan and half Romulan he was not considered too old.
    He was finally content, after years of hopping from ship to
ship he was finally on the most powerful Star Ship Star Fleet
had ever conceived.
    Tarva came out from her shower wearing her short black robe
and her wet hair tied up in a towel.  She sat cross legged on
her bed and said "How are the repairs coming?"
    "Commander Dolittel reports that the repairs are coming
along on schedule.  We should be able to continue the tests of
the Vigilante in a day or so."
    "Very good we have a lot to do before we can embark on our
mission.  Has there been any more signs of Romulans in the
area?"
    "We've been keeping a constant passive scanner watch since
taking the shields and warp drives off line.  There has been no
sign of activity in this area."
    "This all seems too easy."
    "The right equipment can make a difficult job seem easy."
    Tarva smiled at this cliche, Simon seemed to like cliches.
She responded with her own "Yes but sometimes when things seem
to be going right something has got to go wrong."
    They both laughed at their exchange, Norton then got
serious.
    "Sashon," very few people knew her personal name and fewer
yet would ever use it, "you haven't been sleeping much since
coming on board, we all know it, is there anything I can do to
help?"
    Tarva sat up stiff "A Kalonian does not need as much sleep
as other members of the Federation." she said proudly.
    Simon was not impressed, he seldom was, "You haven't
answered my question.  From one suspicious personality to
another, something is wrong, you can't hide it from me.  I know
you too well".
    Tarva made a point of looking at her time piece and
announced "It is time for me to sleep, we can finish this
conversation at a later date."
    Knowing he was at a bulk head he stood bowed slightly from
the hips and walked out.
    Tarva assumed her cross legged meditation position.  It did
not give her the absolute rest every body eventually needed.  It
did, however, give her some rest and the dreams didn't come.

    ...Tarva lay in the escape pod barely conscious.  She could
see out of her right eye but only barely.  She could feel a
weight laying across her.  With great effort she managed to pull
herself out and look down at it.  The remains of her Captain
still lay partially on her.  His black skin was barely
recognizable through the blood and lacerations.  Most of the
front of the body had taken the force of the explosion that had
thrown them into the pod.  Much of the flesh and muscle had been
blackened from the blast.
    As she looked at it, the body shuddered and took a labored
breath.  It's eye opened and the burned skull turned to look at
her.  The remains of its mouth and jaw struggled to form words.
    "You failed." it gasped "The ship is destroyed your Captain
and crew are dead.  How is it that you managed to save your
self?  A Kalonian putting herself ahead of her comrades who
depended her?  Who do you think you are?  Do you think you
really deserve to live?" It had been edging toward her and
grabbed her face.  It started pulling her towards it, with what
was left of it's mouth dangling open.
    Tarva woke thrashing and screaming she was totally soaked in
sweat.  She could still feel hands on her face and screamed even
louder.
    She could feel words in her mind telling her to be calm.
She was safe and nothing could hurt her.  She could still feel
the hands touching her face but now it was calming.  She thought
she could even see her own face with light skinned hands on it.
The nightmare had turned to a dream she could relax and let her
muscles loosen.  Finally she felt safe enough to open her eyes
and see what was real.
    Commander Norton sat above her, his bald head accented by
his pointed ears.  His hands had been the ones she had felt.  He
pulled his hands away and looked into her eyes.
    "How do you feel?" he said.
    "What happened?"
    "I wasn't gone more than twenty paces when I came back in to
ask you something.  You had already fallen into a dream,
nightmare.  As soon as I touched you, you started screaming.  I
only had time to use a mind meld to calm you as you came out of
it."
    "Every time," Tarva finally admitted "I fall a sleep the
dreams of the Eclipse's destruction return.  They change,
they're becoming more vivid, more twisted.  Scenes that would
normally not bother me are scaring me like I've never known.
I've become frightened of sleep, a Kalonian warrior afraid of
her bed.  What have I become?"
    "You need to resolve the guilt you feel of being the only
survivor of the Eclipse." Norton said. "I don't know if I can
help you with that.  It is something you must admit to yourself
and cope with it.  I can, however, use the mind-meld to perhaps
help you sleep better.  Are you willing to let me try?"
    Tarva thought for a second then looked down at the black
robe plastered to her body with sweat.  "I'll try." she said.
    She then got up and went into her bathroom.  He could see
her open the robe and drop it off her arms as she disappeared
around the corner.
    When Tarva returned she was wearing a robe the same design
as the black one only a dark red.  She still wore the Simtar on
her right shin.  It occurred to him that he had been extremely
lucky she hadn't reached for it when she woke from the
nightmare.
    Tarva got into her bed, for the first time in a long time
under the blanket.  Commander Norton sat in a chair next to her
and lightly touched the sides of her head as if massaging the
temples.
    As she drifted into sleep he assured her the dreams were an
illusion.  This time with his comfort the dreams stayed away.
He could keep the dreams from her, the guilt she would have to
work out on her own.  He did, however, plant suggestions to keep
the fear away.  Without the terror she had been experiencing
with the nightmares, she would be able to sleep.

    Tarva woke to the piping sound on her intercom and Captain
Anthony paging her.  She sat up and looked around her.
Commander Norton was long gone.  Her red robe was tangled into
the covers of her bed, all she wore was the Simtar and sheath
strapped to her leg.  How long she had been a sleep she had no
idea but she felt totally refreshed.
    "Commander Tarva here." she said as she stood and stretched.
    "Please report to the bridge, immediately."
    "Aye, Sir."
    Tarva looked at her time piece and tried to remember what
time it was when she kicked Simon out the first time.  By her
calculations she must have been asleep over fifteen hours.
    When Tarva arrived on the bridge she hadn't taken the time
to brush and braid her hair as normal.  Instead it lay rather
unruly on the top of her head and a long pony tail tied in
several places hung down her back.
    On the view screen was a distant shot of an uncommon Romulan
ship.  Tarva took her seat next to the Captain studied the image
for a few seconds and said "What is it?"
    "It appears to be a Romulan research vessel of some kind."
Commander Norton said.  "It came out of warp uncloaked several
minutes before we started paging you."
    "What's its projected course?"
    "That's why we've gotten the bridge crew together."  Anthony
said "Its current trajectory will put it in orbit around this
planet in about an hour"
    Tarva checked the current ship's configuration.  The shields
and engines were still off line.  The blast shields were shut to
help reduce the Vigilante's sensor profile.
    "Are we going to go into silent running?" she asked.
    "All departments are preparing for the restricted movements
called for by silent running."  Commander Norton reported "It'll
initiate in five minutes."
    "And Engineering?"
    "Engineering, reports all systems should be back online in
six hours.  They are beyond the point of no return and must
finish the repairs before they can bring anything up." Captain
Anthony said seemingly unconcerned.
    "And what is the current plan?" Tarva said looking at her
Captain.
    "We sit and hope they don't see us.  The planet is big
enough, unless they actually see us they shouldn't pick up any
sign of us."
    "Hence the silent running."
    "That's correct, Commander."
    "I hope it works."
    "Your not the only one." Captain Anthony reclined his chair
slightly and looked at the screen.
    The crew of the Vigilante began a long wait.  They took
their places in the Rough Duty chairs.  All accept essential
activity was curtailed.
    Many automatic systems were discontinued or limited.  The
Turbo lifts ran at one quarter speed unless an emergency over
ride was issued.  Most important, however, was that the life
support circulation systems were also limited.
    When the Vigilante's orbit took it to the night side of the
planet the temperature dropped to an unusual and generally
uncomfortable 5 degrees Celsius.  On the day side the
temperature rose some what but the hull construction didn't
allow much solar energy to penetrate.  Temperature changes were
expected so all Rough Duty seats were temperature controllable
but it didn't help much.
    Engineering continued their repairs but at a much slower
pace.  Noises from any accidents may be picked up by the Romulan
ship, especially if it was a research vessel with hypersensitive
scanners.
    The arms holding the warp drives did not have artificial
gravity.  The engineers working on the drives were carried
through the arms in specially designed turbo lifts.   They then
worked in zero gravity using magnetic tools and holders. The
work required highly skilled personnel and was extremely
dangerous.
    The valve that ruptured, had been damaged during the
original mishap.  When it blew, the specialist never new what
hit her.  A large blast of gas crushed her against the bulkhead,
it also caused an exterior evacuation valve to blow.  The
resulting gas leak caused a bright orange streak as it burned in
the planet's atmosphere.
    When the emergency lights flashed, Ensign O'Malley shifted
the view screen to reverse.  As the bridge crew watched, an
orange streak flared out behind them.
    Captain Anthony turned to his First Officer and said "I
think we're in trouble".
    "Engineering, what happened down there?" Tarva said.
    "Unknown, Sir" came Chief Swanson's voice "Commander
Dolittel is suiting up to take a team and have a look."
    Tarva turned on the view screen and looked at the concern on
Swanson's face. "We're going to need maneuvering as soon as
possible."  Tarva said trying to stress the urgency.
    "Commander," Swanson said "We still needed two hours before
the accident happened."
    "Chief, we need to get this thing moving.  We're also going
to need weapons or your not going to have time to finish the
repairs."  Captain Anthony said.
    Chief Swanson had gone ghost white, dealing with command was
not her job, she was a transporter Chief.  "We'll do what we
can." she said and turned off the screen.
    Anthony turned to Tarva and said "Chief Swanson needs some
help."
    Tarva headed toward the turbo lift issuing the emergency
over ride commands as she went.
    "Sir" it was Ensign O'Malley.
    "Yes, Ensign."
    "Sir, all the drop ships are armed and D.S. Three is still
equipped with cargo latches..."
    "Of course, we can use it to change our orbit, if we have
time.  Commander Norton take Ensign O'Malley, launch two drop
ships, one to provide cover the other to move the Vigilante."
the Captain said.
    "Ensign O'Malley?" Commander Norton asked the Captain.
    "She's the only one on board who's had experience piloting
the tug converted Drop Ship."
    "Very well." Norton said joining the navigator at turbo-lift
two and said to the intercom "Shuttle bay, prepare drop ships
three and seven for emergency use."
    "Acknowledged" was the brief reply.
    As the pair left the bridge Captain Anthony reconfigured his
console for the navigator station.
    As soon as the turbo lift's door closed Commander Norton
started giving additional instructions to the shuttle bay.
    "Commander, Sir, don't we have any other Drop Ship pilots on
board?" Ensign O'Malley asked when Commander Norton finished
talking to the shuttle bay.
    "No, we do not.  The drop ship pilots will be boarded after
the space trials"
    "That helps us a lot now doesn't it?"
    "Well, Ensign, it's keeping you busy."
    The turbo-lift's high speed yellow warning light flashed,
then it jerked to a stop at the shuttle bay.  In the shuttle
bay, two Drop Ships waited for launch.  Out side of the lift two
light weight pilot's pressure suits waited for them.
    They had already started removing their baggy black uniforms
while in the lift.  Jackets and boots laying on the floor of the
lift, Commander Norton and Ensign O'Malley stepped out of their
pants as they stepped out of the lift and into the pressure
suits.
    The doors of the Drop Ships stood open and the engines were
already warming up.  As they approached the ships, the shuttle
bay doors opened with only a force field between them and open
space.  When they entered their perspective ships, the lowered
steps practically lifted them in as they closed behind them.
    As soon as she was strapped in, Ensign O'Malley had Drop
Ship Three powered up for launch.  She watched D.S. Seven launch
and flicker out practically before he was out of the bay. Janice
waited a preset time and launched D.S. Three.  As soon as she
could power back from launch she too engaged the cloaking.
    Time was of the essence, the gas they leaked had burned in
their orbit.  It's composition, caused a solid sensor reading
when it burned.  Her goal was to shift the Vigilante to a
different orbit so the Romulans would be a lot less likely to
find it.  Luckily they had taken an orbit on the opposite side
of the planet but it wouldn't be long before they spotted the
gas trail.
    Immediately after launching, Ensign O'Malley turned D. S.
Three back toward the bulbous main body of the Vigilante.  She
skimmed across the hull between the upswept arms of the top warp
engines.  The magnetic couplings were extended searching for the
Vigilante's frame.
    Since the Romulan's sensors would have a very difficult time
finding the Vigilante the largest worry was someone actually
seeing them from a view screen or window.  If They got close
enough to be spotted, D.S. Seven would have to destroy the
Romulan ship before it could report to it's superiors.  Under no
circumstances, could the Vigilante allow it's existence be known
by the Romulans.
    The Vigilante was designed with scramblers, hopefully
capable of confusing the Borg for an extended period of time.
They were prepared to use the scramblers to prevent the Romulans
from reporting back until D.S. Seven was able to destroy them.
Hopefully, it would not come to that.
    The feedback from the couplings told her she was over a
likely spot.  Slowly she landed D.S. Three on the hull of the
Vigilante and engaged the couplings at full strength.  The
connection, however, was not strong because of the composite
hull but it would have to do.
    The Drop Ship's sensors showed the Romulan closing the gap
from the opposite side of the planet.  She had to move the
Vigilante away from the current orbit and try to keep the planet
between them and the Romulans.
    The problem was that because of the weak connection she
could not accelerate quickly.  She had to work slowly and nudge
the Vigilante into a still lower and different orbit.
    "Ensign O'Malley," came Captain Anthony's voice over the
directed beam communications "their getting close."
    "Sir, I have a weak connection if I accelerate too quickly
I'll lose it.  How much longer till we have cloaking back on
line?"
    "Because of the accident, Commander Dolittel estimates we're
back to just under two days."

-----------

    The Romulan research vessel, Raptor, had just returned to
its post.  It's mission was the study of the effects of a
collapsing red star on it's planets.
    "Commander, I read some kind of an anomaly on the opposite
side of the planet." the young female Romulan said almost
apologetically.
    "Elaborate." said an older female Romulan sitting in the
middle of the bridge.
    "I was running standard high altitude atmospheric scans when
I watched an object form and grow in low orbit.  It reads as a
solid cylinder about 10 symtons long.  We are currently too far
away to get an accurate reading on it's composition." said the
young sensor operator.
    "Perhaps we have found a new phenomenon."  said the lead
scientist sitting at another sensor station.
    "Helm, adjust orbit for close inspection of this anomaly"
the Commander said.
    The Raptor adjusted orbit to intercept the anomaly.  As they
approached, the sensor operator reported "Sir, it is not solid,
it appears to be a gas that registered solid on the long range
sensors."
    As the lead scientist studied his scanners he reported "I am
not aware of any element that would create that kind of
reading."
    The anomaly was soon close enough to be put on the screen.
It was a long orange streak that seemed to be fading into the
atmosphere.
    The young sensor operator finished the analysis and said
"Sir, it appears to be pure mhalogin gas burning in the
atmosphere."
    "Where did it come from." the Commander said to herself.
    "Did you say mhalogin?" came an older male's voice from an
open door.
    "Yes, Centurian, but mhalogin does not appear naturally in
pure form and is rare in the Empire" the operator said.
    "I know, but the Federation uses it to cool warp drives."
the Centurian said.
    With the Centurian's comment the Commander hit the Red Alert
and yelled "Shields....Shields..."  Before the inexperienced
crew was able to bring shields up the ship rocked from an
explosion.
    "What happened?" the Commander shouted.
    "We've been hit" replied the Centurian calmly.
    "Get those shields raised.  Damage report, where were we
hit..sensors, who fired on us" the Commander shouted feeling
that she was about to lose her first command.
    The Centurian stood at a console after relieving a much
younger crew member.  "Commander," he said "the shields are
inoperative."
    The bridge rocked from another explosion from a different
side of the ship.  The helm console exploded in the operator's
face.
    "What's happening? Helm, get us out of here.  Communications
issue a distress call, tell them we are being attacked by an
unknown force."
    "Commander," the Helmsman said after the sparks died down
from her console. "I get no response from my console and
engineering reports major damage from the last blast.  All
engines are off line."
    "Commander," the senors Operator said "the sensors are
inoperative, all I get is static."
    The Communications Officer said "All communications are
down, I was not able to issue the distress call."
    The Centurian studied the communications console then the
scanners.  "Commander," he said.
    "Centurian" she acknowledge.
    "I believe our scanners and sensors are being jammed.  They
were not damaged in either attack.  Also," he said "the two hits
we received were precise, they knew right were to cripple us
with minimal damage."
    The Commander sat down in her chair heavily and looked at
the fading orange streak.  "A trap and we fell right into it.
How did the Federation get into the heart of the Empire without
detection."
    "Maybe they didn't." the Centurian said.
    "What do you mean."
    "Perhaps this is a test.  Perhaps you are being tested for
worthiness for higher command."
    She looked at him suspiciously "If this were the case
wouldn't you be told of it?"
    "I have no such knowledge."
    "Is this how they tested you in your day?"
    "We did not have the precision when I was young to conduct
this kind of test.  I have also never heard of it being done.
This does not, however, preclude it from starting."
    "So you don't have any actual knowledge that this is some
kind of test?"
    "Just the facts so far.  We are in the middle of the Empire
in an inconsequential system.  We have been attacked by an
unseen enemy with such precision that we are totally helpless
but have suffered very light casualties.  In fact so far there
have been no deaths reported.  It is my duty to report all
possible alternatives to you."
    The Communications officer had been checking the
surveillance films. "Commander," he said "I have found the
scenes of the attack."
    "We have pictures of our attacker?"
    "They're real brief, I missed them the first time around.  I
slowed the tape down and you can see it frame by frame."
    "Main screen"
    "This is the first attack." the Communications officer said
as he pressed a few buttons.
    The view was an angle up from under main body of the ship.
A frame at a time passed and they watched the nose of a strange
looking ship start to uncloak.  The star field peeled away from
it as if the ship were emerging from a pool of water.  Before it
was half uncloaked a missile fired from its nose.  The cloaking
began to reform around the front of the ship as the tail
finished uncloaking.  At no time, was there a frame that showed
the ship totally uncloaked.
    The Communications officer then said "I can overlay all
frames and get a complete picture of the craft."  He pushed a
few more buttons and a complete picture of the mysterious ship
appeared on the screen.  In front of it was a stream of
torpedoes caused be the overlaying of the frames.
    The ship was a dull gray color.  It had a stub nose with
bridge obviously the top half and weapons appeared to fill the
bottom half.  The body was wide and boxy with a single access
door on the side.  The back lifted above the box with what was
obviously the drives.  Missing, were the standard warp drive
pods sticking away from the body.
    "No warp drives." The Commander said.
    "Were did it come from, if it doesn't have warp drives?"
someone asked.
    "A mother ship." The Centurian answered.
    "Do you know what it is?" the Commander asked the Centurian.
    "My best guess, would be what we used to call a 'personnel
lander'" the Centurian said.  "We used them when I was a very
young officer and the Empire was expanding rapidly.  They
quickly carried warriors into battle zones where transporters
could not be used.  Planets that had transporter scramblers or
whose atmosphere scrambled transporters naturally.  I even
commanded several landing crews."  The Centurian shuttered at
the memory of the bloody battles.  These operations were not
well chronicled because of their high mortality rate.
    "Is this one of those landers?" the Communications officer
asked.
    The Centurian walked up to the screen and said "No, but it
has similar features." he indicated the wide body and rounded
bottom. "The bottom appears to have extra protection for the
stress of dropping through the atmosphere."  He then pointed to
the back.  "The main drives sit high, allowing for cargo to be
quickly loaded on and off through wide back doors.  If we had a
view of the back I'd stake my life it's got them back there.
Finally, if it wasn't designed to go into battle, it wouldn't be
armed and cloaked.  If it were designed for battle in space, it
would have warp drives, therefore, it must be designed for
battle planet side."
    The Commander sat and studied the picture then said "What do
sensors say during the exact time these frames were taken?"
    The scanner Operator said "I've been running all scanner
logs for the time frame.  The best I can come up with is that
they seem to have picked the ship up as a small piece of debris
of undetermined make up."  She then replaced the image on the
screen with the scanner interpretation for the same area and
time.
    Half the screen showed a graphic representation of what the
scanners had picked up the other side showed an analysis of the
same data.  The graphics showed an irregular shaped lump fade
on, stay several frames, then fade out.  At the time the lump
reminded on screen the analysis showed size about a quarter that
of the ship they had seen and mass as undetermined.  No life was
registered and all other data showed as undetermined.
    "What ever this thing is," the Commander said "It barely
needs cloaking"
    "Why doesn't it just destroy us and get it over with?" the
Helmsman asked.
    "Centurian," the Commander said "What would happen if we
suffered a massive loss of coolant from a warp drive?"
    "We'd be crippled" he replied.
    "That's right.  If this landing craft doesn't have warp
drives, it couldn't have leaked the mhalogin.  Therefore,
another ship must have leaked it."
    "It's protecting it's mother ship while effecting repairs".
    "And if the landing craft is cloaked and immune to the
sensors so probably would be the mother ship.  If it were still
cloaked, however, they wouldn't be worried about us being here."
    "The Federation doesn't cloak its ships," The Centurian
added "but The Klingons do."
    The Commander turned and looked at the Centurian and asked
"After all these years in service to the Empire, do you truly
believe the Klingons would have let us live?"
    "No"
    "Now forgetting the official propaganda about the Federation
and relying only on your experience as a War Bird commander,
what would the Federation do?"
    "The Federation would do all they could to avoid killing
even a sworn enemy." he said as if having a terrible secret
dragged from him.
    The Commander continued to look at her Second in Command and
advisor then said "What if the Federation is experimenting with
new technology, were would be the best place to put it to a true
test?  Inside the Romulan Empire, right.  Now, what if they had
an accident while stalking a harmless scientific vessel?"
    "They would do all they could to keep us from finding them
out."
    "Precisely,  If their cloaking is down our scanners would
pick them up but only as debris of undetermined make up, like
the landing craft."
    "So, they would have to cripple us while they limped away to
make repairs."
    The Commander suddenly smiled and said to the crew "Run all
scanner logs since picking up the mhaligon trail.  Look for any
debris of undetermined makeup.  Also, run a high resolution scan
of all view screen logs looking for anything that looks like
another ship."
    A loud claxon began blaring all over the ship.  The bridge
crew looked at the Commander and the Centurian.
    The Commander said almost in a panic "It's the Intruder
alert from engineering."
    Practically before the Commander had a chance to finish,
several places on the bridge shimmered briefly and figures
wearing dull gray armored suits with darkened face shields where
standing in strategic locations.  Before anyone on the bridge
had time to react, the intruders started shooting large black
phasers at them.
    The Commander and Communications officer were the first to
go down.  Before the Centurian was hit, he had time to fire his
disrupter at one of the intruders.  Several inches ahead of the
suit, a deflector shield shimmered when the blast hit.  The
armored intruder returned fire and the Centurian was thrown
against the console he had taken over earlier.
    Meanwhile, all over the ship, including the bridge,
canisters appeared and began emitting a white gas.  The effects
were relatively slow but the crew was soon unconscious.  Those
that were able to grab a gas mask were soon stunned down by an
armored figure that would beam in, shoot them, remove the mask,
then beam out.
    Two minutes after the intruder alert claxon came on a gloved
had reached to the Commander's console and turned it off.
Commander Tarva looked at the command console through her
helmet.  "Let's work fast" she said into her intercom "the
sooner we get back, the sooner Commander Dolittel will be able
to get back to work on the warp drives."  With transporters on
line, Dolittel was unable to continue repairs.
    Another figured appeared on the bridge with phaser in hand.
Commander Norton looked around and said to Tarva "All ships
personnel have been neutralized.  Once the gas is gone they
should be out about seventy two hours."
    "That should give Mr Dolittel more than enough time." Tarva
said as she pulled the Commander from her seat and dropped her
on the floor.  "OK, all personnel listen up, our first mission
is to find out if they actually saw the Vigilante.  If they did
we'll have to destroy the ship.  I regret it, but its necessary
for our own survival.  If we can find no record that they have
seen the Vigilante we must remove all records of their encounter
with us, starting with their entrance into this star system."
    "Too bad we don't have the time to wipe their memories as
well, that would make it really clean." Norton said.
    Tarva said "I know, but all they will have is memories of a
mysterious attack and no proof that will, in any way, link it to
the Federation.  Just speculation.  Without concrete evidence
the decision makers will not lend a lot of credence to their
reports."
    "I hope your right." Norton said.
    Tarva smiled and said "So do I." she had taken the
Commander's seat and began down loading the ship's technical
data banks to the Vigilante.  She also began down loading all
ship's logs to the Vigilante.  She knew that in the time they
had, she wouldn't get all of the information from either data
bank but would get quite a bit.
    After five hours, Commander Tarva signaled to the Vigilante
'mission complete'.  All the Vigilante personnel and gas
canisters beamed off at once.  With the canisters gone the
ship's life support would start clearing the gas off the ship.
Once the gas was gone, the crew would remain unconscious for an
estimated seventy two hours.

-----------

    Sixty eight hours after beaming off the Romulan ship,
Commander Dolittel signaled the bridge that all systems were on
line and functioning properly.  They had also begun to pickup
transmissions to the Romulan ship.  The transmissions meant that
they would soon be having more company, investigating the lost
contact.
    The Vigilante jumped to warp 9.6 as soon as leaving the star
system.  Captain Anthony immediately ordered a course plotted
back to sector 5876.34 using the controlled worm hole effect.
The crew nervously watched the count down remembering the last
trip.
    This time Dolittel's realignments worked, dropping the
Vigilante into the correct sector.  The worm hole effects were
not nearly as sever and the exit was nearly undetectable when
they dropped out.
    The Captain then gave the original coordinates as new
heading.  The Vigilante immediately jumped to warp eight for its
new destination.

-----------

    The Enterprise had been waiting at the predetermined meeting
place with no contact.  They were several days over the
estimated window of arrival.  Captain Picard, however, had
strict orders to stay on station until ordered other wise.
    "Captain" Lieutenant Worf said "Sub-space message coming in,
for your eyes only".
    "Thank you, Mr Worf, I'll take it in my ready room."
    The message was cryptic, to say the least, but it told
Picard all he needed to know.  After reading the message Captain
Picard remained in his ready room and called Mr Worf in.
    "Captain, there has been some trouble in Ten Forward." Worf
said stiffly before Picard could get down to his own business.
    "What kind of trouble?"
    "Sir, Two of our guests have been fighting rather severely."
    "Just how severely?"
    "They fought using knives, Sir.  Doctor Crusher is currently
mending both of them.  It seems they were able to inflict quite
a bit a damage to each other before security intervened." Worf
said obviously embarrassed for the performance of his personnel.
    "Is there something you think I should do about this, Mr
Worf?" asked Picard.
    "Sir, I was wondering what kind of punishment I should
impose since they are guests."
    "Well, don't they have a Senior Officer who can deal with
this kind of situation."
    At this Worf stiffened a little more "Sir, the combatants
were a Klingon officer and a Kalonian officer both claiming the
position.  They decided to settle the argument; traditionally."
    Picard sat back in his chair steepling his fingers in front
of his face and said "I see, perhaps after Doctor Crusher is
finished with them they should be placed together in the brig
for the duration of their stay on the Enterprise.  If either is
still alive when it is time to leave we'll let their new
assignment take care of any further punishment.
    "The reason I called you in, Mr Worf, is because I'd like
you to inform our guests that they should report to their
assigned assembly areas with their gear in eighteen hours."
    "Will that be all, Sir." Worf Said before leaving.
    "Yes, dismissed."
    Worf turned crisply and walked back onto the bridge.

-----------

    The two sat in the detention cell staring at each other.
They each wore a strange baggy black uniform with several
pockets.  One had the high, ridged forehead and nose of the
Klingon the other had a similar forehead but not nearly as
pronounced.  The Kalonian stood a few centimeters shorter than
the Klingon but matched him in weight and stubbornness.
    "If they hadn't interfered," the Klingon snarled "you'd be
dead, I had you beaten."  he spoke in Federation Standard since
Kalonians and Klingons traditionally despised learning or
speaking the others' language.
    The Kalonian laughed and said "You fool, you were about to
let your guard down thinking I was beaten.  Then I would have
ended your life.  Accept me as your superior officer and I'll
let you live when we get to where we are going."
    Now it was time for the Klingon to laugh "I find it
distasteful enough to serve next to a Kalonian, I would sooner
die than serve under one."
    "Like I said, that could be arranged."
    At that the Klingon growled and advanced toward the Kalonian
who did the same.  Before they came to blows they heard someone
holler to them.  It was the Enterprise's resident Klingon.
    "It is time to go." he said shutting off the force field.
He than threw them their bags, already packed.  "Come with me,
you can take this up at you new assignment."  Worf turned and
walked out of the detention area.
    "You have trained together for many months," Worf said to
the pair as they followed him down the corridor. "I would think
that these differences would have been worked out by now."
    "We trained in different teams." the Kalonian said.
    The Klingon, like most, tried his best to ignore this
Federation fool.
    Worf lead them to a cargo bay which was filled with many
more all wearing the same black uniform.  The group was
comprised of a number of different peoples.  Most prevalent were
Humans, Klingons, and Kalonians both male and female.  There
were others too some looked like Volcans and other assorted
Federation races.
    "What are we suppose to do here?" the Klingon said as he
entered the cargo bay.
    "Wait." Worf said and closed the door behind them and
continued down the corridor to a turbo-lift.

    Picard checked his the chronometer and said "Discontinue all
scanner operations, lower shields and turn off all exterior
recording devices."
    Commander Ryker looked puzzled and said "Sir, do you think
that is a wise thing to do, this close to the Neutral Zone?"
    "Number One, if it wasn't the proper thing to do, I wouldn't
do it.  Now are all of our guests in their assigned areas?"
    "Yes, Sir," Ryker said "and all ship's personnel have left
the areas."
    "Very good"
    "Now What?"
    "Now we wait." Picard said as he sat down in his chair.
    "Sir," Commander Data Looked up from his console "All
personnel in the cargo and shuttle bays have just disappeared, I
believe they have been transported."
    Picard smiled and said "Thank you Mr Data, now return to
normal operating conditions and set new course...."

                                to be continued ........


---------------------



                   T H E   V I G I L A N T E

                              IIIA

                         "The Warriors"

...
Thank God! there is always a Land of Beyond
    For us who are true to the trail;
A vision to seek, beckoning peak,
    A fairness that never will fail;
A pride in our soul that mocks at a goal,
    A manhood that irks at a bond,
And try how we will, unattainable still,
    Behold it, our Land of Beyond!
                    Robert Service
                    "THE LAND OF BEYOND"





    All of the new personnel had been transported directly to a
shuttle bay.  The main deck of the huge bay was  filled with the
black uniformed new arrivals.  Few of them noticed the strangers
standing in the front of the room.  It was hard, since the
strangers also wore the baggy black uniform.
    They had just enough time to adjust from the unannounced
transportation when the ship's public address system came on.
    "Your attention please." a man with long graying hair said.
The four hundred or so new personnel looked at him but basically
ignored his request and continued to talk among themselves.
    This time he spoke in a louder authoritarian voice "Crew,
Attention!".
    Their past months of training went into effect and the bay
was instantly silent and all personnel stood at attention.  All
eyes turned attention to the three standing at the head of the
bay.
    The two males stood about two meters tall, one was a human
with long graying shoulder length hair pulled back in a pony
tail.  The other was slightly shorter than the human he appeared
to be a vulcan and was totally bald.
    The third was a short female with long hair braided and
hanging down the middle of her back.  From her high smooth
forehead and brown skin many immediately guessed her to be a
Kalonian.
    The human continued to address them "I am Captain Anthony"
he said "and it is my honor to welcome you aboard the United
Star Ship Vigilante.  The mission of the Vigilante is considered
extremely hazardous the exact details will be released to you in
due time.  Right now, I'd like to introduce you to my senior
officers."
    He indicated the female and said "this is my first officer,
Commander Tarva and this is Chief of Security, Commander Norton.
With the stations you will be assigned to, many of you will
report directly to Commander Tarva or Commander Norton."
    Captain Anthony then indicated a large view screen on one
wall of the bay.  "If you'd examine the screen, you'll see your
current station and room assignments.  You have half an hour to
get settled in your quarters and report to your duty assignments
for introductory meetings.  Any questions?"
    There was something said in Klingon in the middle of the
room and several Klingons laughed amongst themselves.
    "Federation Standard will be spoken on the Vigilante."
Captain Anthony said "If you have something to say, say it now!"
      A Klingon stepped forward and addressed the Captain "As a
member of the Klingon Empire, and for its greater honor, I have
resigned my self to working with Kalonians," he said spitting
the last word then said "but I will not answer to one especially
a female."
    Commander Tarva stepped toward the Klingon and looked up at
him.  He was a large muscular warrior who was obviously well
seasoned and highly respected.  The shuttle bay was quieter now
then when the Captain was speaking.
    She flipped open her communicator and said "Will a medical
team please report to Shuttle Bay One."  She then looked at the
Klingon and smiled slightly.  The Klingon looked down at her
defiantly.
    What happened next the Klingon never saw coming.  Commander
Tarva started to turn to her left then kicked out sideways at
him with her right foot.  The bones in his lower left leg
snapped like dry sticks, he immediately screamed and fell toward
the deck.  As he fell, Tarva struck down at him with her left
hand.  His face caved in from the blow as his jaw shattered.
His head flung to the opposite shoulder and pinkish red blood
splattered across the floor and up on some of the crew standing
behind him.  He spun totally around, landing on his back.
    Tarva turned and looked at what was suppose to be a crew of
highly trained professional warriors.  She continued to wear her
smile and said "Is there anyone else who wishes to register a
complaint?" she sounded more like a waitress asking a customer
for an order.
    The crew remained totally silent, finally one of the
Kalonions began to chant.  It was an ancient war chant used
before going into battle, the other Kalonians soon joined him.
The rest of the crew stood in total silence.

-----------

    The Klingon limped to his quarters.  He had missed his group
meeting, even the current medical techniques took time to work.
When he entered the cabin the Kalonian he had spent the time in
detention with was there.
    "What are you doing here?" he said through wires in his
mouth.
    "We are to share this cabin." the Kalonian said.
    "Why am I not surprised."  The Klingon walked over to the
bunk with his bag on it.
    "Perhaps it is time for introductions" the Kalonian said "I
am called Golta."
    "I am Kartang." replied the Klingon through his wires.
    The quarters would have been large for a single on the
Vigilante.  There was one main room with the bunks on either
side and the door on the opposite wall.  The door to the head
was to the right of the main door past one of the bunks.  Built
into the wall that was most toward the back of the ship were two
high back chairs with swing across restraints and buckle down
harnesses.
    Kartang inspected the bunk and declared it a typical
Federation luxury.  As with Golta, his possessions on this trip
were few but he neatly put them in the few drawers allocated to
him.
    "Kartang, may I ask you a question?"
    Kartang looked at him and growled "Why are you being civil
toward me, Kalonian?"
    "I have considered the consequences of trouble on this ship.
I've decided that it would be in both of our interests to get
along."
    Kartang scratched at the wires in his mouth and said "What
is your question?"
    "Had you ever heard of Commander Tarva before today?" Golta
asked sounding as sincerely as his deep Kalonian voice allowed.
    "No, I had not." Kartang spat.
    "There are not many Kalonians in Star Fleet." Golta said "So
we tend to know about those who are.  Like you would know  about
the Klingon on the Enterprise."
    "Yes we know about him." Kartang hissed.
    "Commander Tarva comes from one of the Southern provinces on
Kalon.  Her family was one of the few that stayed with the
absolute traditional Kalonian way.  These Traditionalists
trained their children to be soldiers from the time they were
born."
    "So we found out." Kartang mumbled.
    Golta pretended he didn't hear the comment.  Just continued
with the story "When they come to the age of decision, they
would chose a discipline.  Many would chose to be line soldiers
others qualified for training as officers.  There are many needs
in a well equipped defense force.  The traditionalists always
garnered the top ranks due to their extensive training.  Tarva
rose quickly through the ranks and it was thought one day she
would be highly placed."
    "So what's your point?" Kartang groweled.
    "I'm getting to it." Golta responed then continued..
    "Tarva was accepted into the Elite Strike Forces.  Only
fifty percent of the candidates who enter training survive.
Remember, only the best of the best are accepted in to the
program.  Tarva finished at the top of her class and ranked in
the top five percent of all who have ever finished.
    "Not long after she finished training in the E S F her
parents were killed on duty.  As a result, she became
disenchanted with the role she had in the Defense Force.  Though
it is a great honor for mates to die together in the line of
duty, she could not accept it.  She resigned her commission and
applied to Star Fleet Academy.  There is an old saying on Kalon,
loosely translated it means 'Once E.T.F., Always E.T.F.'"
    Kartang sat on his bunk rubbing his leg and looking at his
room mate.  Golta could see the anger in his eyes.
    "If I hadn't experienced Commander Tarva first hand, I would
laugh at your Elite Strike Forces." he said trying to keep
saliva from dripping from the wires.
    "I too, always thought they were just a lot of talk." Golta
admitted with a bit of a smile.
    The two looked at each other for a second and then burst
into their races' hardy laughs.
    The intercom piped on "Lieutenant Kartang, report to the
Command Room".
    "Acknowledged." he said.
    Kartang looked at Golta and said "How do I find this Command
Room?" as he stood from his bunk.
    "The Command Room is off the bridge."
    Kartang stood for a moment then limped out of the room.
    The bridge crew acknowledged his presence as if he had been
a long time companion.  The bridge was basically laid out like
most standard Federation bridges.  The main difference was that
all stations were designed for access from the same kind of
chairs as were built into the wall in his cabin.  They even
included the restraints and belts.  This seemed to be a standard
on the Vigilante.
    Sitting at the far end of the slightly curved table that
basically filled the command room were Captain Anthony,
Commander Tarva and Commander Norton.  The chairs around the
table were similar to the others he'd observed on the Vigilante
including all belts and restraints.
    Commander Tarva stood to great him.  "Lieutenant Kartang,
this meeting has been called to fill you in on what you missed
during your visit to Sick Bay.  First I'd like to say that all
assignments were made before your arrival.  They were based on
your performance during training and your experience prior to
volunteering for the mission.  Won't you have a seat."  She
motioned to one of the seats near where they were sitting.
    She watched him examine the built in restraints. "They are
called Rough Duty seats, their purpose will be explained to you
in due time."
    He sat down in the chair then leaned back casually.  He was
trying his best to look slightly defiant.
    "As I was saying, assignments are based on performance
during training and prior experience.  We do not have time to
evaluate our crew before making assignments.  It has been
decided that your assignment will be Drop Ship Commander.  With
this, will come a promotion to Lieutenant Commander.  The
position also places you in the official emergency chain of
command.  You are now fifth in command of the Vigilante."
    With this announcement the Captain and Commander Norton
stood and offered their hands in congratulations.  They then
announced that they had business elsewhere and dismissed
themselves.
    Commander Tarva motioned for Kartang to sit back down.  "We
have some more business to attend to." She said.
    Kartang sat down and wiped away some saliva caused by the
wires in his mouth.  Kartang struggled to contain his animosity
toward Tarva.  Earlier it was easy with the other two in the
room, it was difficult with her sitting less then a meter across
the table from him.  He had not yet said a word, he was very
conscious of his mouth full of hardware.
    "Now for the chain of command, if your going to be in it you
had better know it.  You will report directly to Commander
Norton who is actually third in command to myself.  The officer
who is fourth in command is Commander Dolittel, Chief of
Engineering.  This chain is implemented in emergency only, it is
not necessarily the day to day order of command.  If we are ever
in a situation where the top command staff is unable to perform
their duties we need to be sure a warrior will be in charge of
the Vigilante.
    "Do you have any questions so far?"
    "Yes." he snarled and leaned toward her across the table.
"Why did you do this to your fifth in command." he spat and
opened his mouth to show her the wires.
    Tarva maintained her same composure and said "I did not know
who you were when you came forward. If I did," she paused and
leaned across the table to meet him face to face ~'I would have
done the exact same thing.'~ She said the last in perfect
Klingon.
    Kartang looked at her disbelieving and sat back in his
chair.
    Tarva did too and continued in standard "The Vigilante is
going on what many know could be a suicide mission.  To simply
mark your record for insubordination would mean something only
if we return.  So any infractions in proper behavior must be
dealt with on the spot and severely.
    "Is there anything else, Lieutenant Commander Kartang."
    "Not at this time." Kartang said calmly.
    "Very good, report to Commander Norton he should be in
shuttle bay three.  He'll give you a tour of your area and
outline your responsibilities.  Dismissed."
    Kartang stood, came to stiff attention then limped toward
the door.
    "Oh, I've been, ah, 'informed' by medical that the small
bone knitters may be functional tomorrow."  Tarva was barely
able to suppress a grin of satisfaction.
    Kartang stiffened trying to ignore what she was implying.
    "One last thing." Tarva said as the door opened for him.
    "Yes, Sir." he growled.
    "There will be a notation made in your permanent record for
insubordination, for the incident earlier today."
    "Yes, Sir." he repeated and walked onto the bridge.

-----------

    The shuttle bays and connected training areas took up more
than two thirds of the bulbous main body of the ship.
Engineering occupied most of the rest.  The crew quarters and
most weapons stations were in the saucer section, there was no
neck connecting the saucer to the main body.
    Kartang stood in the massive Shuttle Bay Three.  The bay was
not filled with shuttles, it was filled with strange looking
long boxy ships.  These must be the drop ships they had been
talking about.  Most were placed in racks and several were on
the deck as if prepared for launch.  Others were on lifts being
worked on.
    Commander Norton was in a control booth that over looked the
main launch deck.  Kartang limped to the one man, open air lift
and road it to the booth, maintaining a perfect Klingon at-ease
posture.
    When commander Norton saw Kartang arrive he smiled and said
"Ah, Lieutenant Commander, welcome to the Cavern."
    "The Cavern, Sir?" Kartang said.
    "Shuttle Bay 3 is the largest shuttle bay on the Vigilante
and in fact one of the largest in Star Fleet.  So its been
nicknamed the Cavern."
    "Sir, Commander Tarva told me to report to you for an
introduction to my duties." Kartang remained the serious, out of
his element, Klingon.
    Norton pointed out the window at the Drop Ships in the bay.
"The U.S.S. Vigilante carries 30 DS-300 series 5 Drop Ships and
five standard transports.  The DS-300 was originally designed to
land anti-terrorist units in troubled regions of the Federation.
The DS-300 Series 5 was designed and built specifically for this
mission.  It is built of the same composite material as the
Vigilante."
    "Sir, what composite material?"
    "Oh yes you missed the introductory meetings." Commander
Norton then briefed Kartang on the properties of the composite
material.
    "So the ships become invisible to sensors without cloaking?"
    "The sensor profile is reduced greatly.  For instance at
close range the Vigilante reads about the size of a tug and
appears to be unmanned.  The Drop Ships appear as debris and a
pressure suit made of the material is virtually invisible."
    "Wouldn't it be easier and more effective to cloak the
ship?"
    "The Vigilante and the Drop Ships are cloaked.  Cloaking,
however, can fail.  The composite also reflects energy and
reduces the damage a direct hit may cause.  It might be enough
to save the ship from only a hit or two but that can still make
a difference in survival."
    "What precisely are my duties as Drop Ship Commander?"
    "You are in charge of the Drop Ships, from maintenance to
planning and coordinating missions."
    "I have never seen a drop ship before, now I am in command
of a fleet of them.  Why didn't they train us on these things?"
    "In order to preserve secrecy you couldn't use Drop Ships,
but the trainers you did use are very similar.  They do have
their own idiosyncrasies though, that is why I've arranged for
you take a ship out for a test flight.  Since I am too busy to
be your co-pilot, I have assigned the only other experienced D S
pilot on the Vigilante to ride with you."
    "I do not need lessons on how to pilot any ship."
    "I don't expect you would but I want somebody there whose
flown these things before.  This will be the only time you won't
have a say in the matter.  Besides she'll probably just sleep or
sight see the whole time anyway."
    Kartang moaned he was going on his first D S flight with a
female as chaperone.  As long as it wasn't Commander Tarva he
figured he could stand it.
    Norton watched Kartang limp to the window and get a better
look at the deck.  "How much longer do they expect your leg to
hurt, and what's with the wires in your mouth?"
    "A day or two." Kartang said through the hardware in his
mouth then said "These shackles are because the small bone
knitters are all temporarily 'out of service', they're suppose
to come out tomorrow."
    Commander Norton began showing Kartang the specifics of the
Control Booth and other areas of the operation.  Kartang knew he
had a lot to learn and was ready to start.  It took all his
concentration to ignore the throbbing in his face and leg.

-----------

    The door signaled and Kartang called for the person to
enter.  His leg no longer hurt and the wire had been removed
from his mouth.  It had been only a day and a half so he was
quite satisfied with the 'progress'.
    When Kartang heard someone walk into the room he looked up
from his computer console to see his visitor.
    "Lieutenant Commander Kartang," it was a human female with
short red hair.  He remembered seeing her on the bridge.
    "Yes."
    "Sir, I'm Ensign O'Malley, Commander Norton asked me to
accompany you on a Drop Ship test run."
    The Vigilante had taken up residence in a seldom traveled
corner of the Federation near the Romulan neutral zone.  The
star system had two planets one of which had a turbulent but
breathable atmosphere.  The planet was deemed appropriate for
training Drop Ship Crews.  The crews, however, were no where
near ready for actual flights.  So the Vigilante stayed in the
system running its own tests.
    Kartang looked at the young human and moaned to himself.  He
knew her history and respected her for where she came from.  It
was hard, however, to over come prejudices especially when his
own skills were being compared to this skinny human.
    "Yes, I've had DS-1 prepared for testing."  Kartang stood
and retrieved his pressure suit gear bag.
    The first order Kartang issued required pressure suits worn
during all Drop Ship flights.  Previously, they were only
required if hazardous duty was expected.  Kartang's theory was
that the Drop Ship's sole purpose was hazardous duty, therefore,
the pressure suit should be worn at all times.

    Shuttle Bay Three was different than the other two, it not
only was larger but was designed for rapid deployment of the
Drop Ships.  A force field was raised behind the ships to allow
them to exit the bay at high acceleration.  Up to four ships
could be launched at a time with rapid replacement.
    Shuttle bays one and two were used for recovery and
maintenance.  They were also used for movement of cargo so as
not to interfere with bay three.
    Ensign O'Malley sat in the co-pilots seat watching Kartang
power up Drop Ship One.  "Sir, do we want to do a rapid
deployment launch your first time out?"
    "I am an experienced pilot," Kartang snapped "if I'm going
to be forced to make this test flight with an observer, I'm
going to push it to the limits."
    O'Malley smiled and said "Great."
    The pilots' pressure suits were similar to the armored ones
but didn't have all the protection.  The material was a form of
the same composite material but woven into a cloth like
substance.  The helmets were a lot lighter and the face shields
closed either manually or when emergency alarms were triggered.
    "Lieutenant Commander Kartang, to traffic control"
    "This is Traffic Control."
"Requesting clearance for launch of DS-1" He said into the
ship's communicator.
    "You are cleared for launch" was the immediate reply.
    O'Malley and Kartang were pressed into their seats as the
Drop Ship accelerated out of the bay.  Before it cleared the
Vigilante's cloaked shields its own were automatically
activated.
    Once the acceleration had ceased Ensign O'Malley turned her
chair slightly and looked out a side window.  "I do so much
piloting, it's nice to have a chance to just ride for once."
    After half an hour of standard test maneuvers Kartang said
"Have you ever taken one of these on an actual drop yet?"
Kartang asked as if he was leading up to something.
    "No, Sir." O'Malley said turning toward him. "Your not
thinking of doing something unscheduled are you, Sir?"
    "They tell me I'm in charge of the Drop Ships, I've decided
it is time to make a test drop."
    They had been making simple orbital maneuvers and now headed
toward were the computer placed the Vigilante.
    "This is Lieutenant Commander Kartang, to traffic control,
requesting landing clearance."
    "You are cleared for landing."  was the immediate reply.
    "Are the preparations complete for test drop." he asked
flight control as he followed the closed homing beacon into the
cloaked Vigilante.  Just before they would have reached the
shields they shimmered and weakened enough to allow the drop
ship in.
    "Yes, Sir.  DS-eighteen is prepared for test drop."
    Kartang turned to O'Malley and said "I've read your record
and it appears you are qualified to ride as co-pilot for the
test drop, if you wish."
    "I would need clearance from Commander Tarva."
    "I've already obtained her release."
    "Sir, I'm honored you recommended me, I hope I do not let
you down."
    "Your performance during the crisis with the Romulans
deserves recognition."
    "Thank you, Sir."
    When they landed, DS-18 was ready for launch.
    "Sir, DS-18 has had minimal flight time, do you think it is
wise to use it for the first test drop?"
    "Ensign O'Malley," Kartang said harshly "are you questioning
my judgment?"
    "No Sir, but as co-pilot it is my job to point out possible
oversights."
    "DS-18 has been thoroughly tested, it is time it got some
flight time."
    "Yes, Sir."
    Sixteen assorted personnel waited inside DS-18 in full
armored pressure suits.  The ship was designed to hold sixteen
personnel, eight to a side.  The chairs were designed to hold
the large armored suits.  During launch, they were turned toward
the front of the ship for acceleration.  After acceleration, the
chairs would automatically turn toward the center for easy exit.
    "These are some of the Drop Ship pilots," Kartang said as he
and O'Malley entered the ship. "I have decided they should know
what a drop feels like to the crew.  I hope this will make them
better pilots."
    Kartang looked at the pressure suited warriors.  These were
true warriors.  He had trained with them, he knew they would
perform well when called upon.  The armor he envied to no end.
If he had anything like it when he commanded his ten crew ship
they would have been indestructible.
    Kartang sat strapped in the pilot's seat he turned and
looked his copilot.  To signal he was ready, he dropped the face
shield on his helmet, she did likewise.
    As official copilot, it was O'Malley's duty to call for
clearance.  Numbers appeared on the wall above the door over
their runway.  A red light bar on the door above their run way
turned yellow when the numbers started counting down.  When they
reached 0 the light would turn green and they would launch.
Everything was timed with the Vigilante's orbit designed for
them to land in the designated spot in the minimum amount of
time.
    The light turned yellow and the numbers seemed to count down
very slowly.  When the numbers reached the end an alarm sounded
in the comm-system, the green light came on and the computer
launched the ship.
    DS-18 immediately dropped toward the atmosphere.  The
acceleration of the Drop Ship totally countered the orbit of the
Vigilante.  It hit the atmosphere with its nosed raised so the
shields on the bottom would take the brunt of the burn in.
    The round shape of the shields showed as the heat of entry
was dispersed.  Inside, the ship shook violently and the hull
temperature rose.  A display in each helmet counted down
projected landing time.
    Ensign O'Malley watched the gauges showing exterior
temperature and stresses, all were approaching the red zone.
    "Sir, shields are reaching tolerances," she said evenly
"adjusting power.  We'll be through burn area in five
seconds..four...three..."
    The ship bucked and started to shake violently.  "Sir,
shields have buckled, it's breaking up.."
    Kartang glanced at his copilot then at her gauges.  The ship
shuddered again and the hull breach alarm sounded.   Kartang had
no more time, he reached up and hit the emergency eject button
above his head.  All eighteen occupants immediately beamed out
of the ship and back to the Vigilante.  As they beamed away,
Drop Ship 18 exploded and continued to fall to the surface in
flaming pieces.
    They materialized on the shuttle bay emergency transporter.
As soon as he could move Kartang pulled off his helmet and threw
it across the bay.  Janice thought the whole ship could hear his
blood curdling scream.  Five of the other pilots were also
Klingons and two were Kalonians they too were showing similar
displays of frustration.  None of them were as violent as
Kartang though.
    Kartang came over to O'Malley screaming loudly in Klingon.
His eyes were wide showing all the white and violet streaks of
blood around the edges.
    O'Malley pushed her fire red hair off her forehead and
smoothed it.  Her early years on Vega-5 had given her a very
thick skin.  She looked him in the eyes and waited for him to
stop his tirade, she figured he'd at least have to take a breath
soon.  She waited and tried to decide what he had eaten that
gave him such bad breath.
    He finally finished and stood looking at her.  His eyes were
still wide and his shoulder length hair stood in all directions.
O'Malley reached into her helmet and removed a storage disk from
the gauge area.  She put the chip into a nearby console and
pressed a few buttons.
    The console immediately lit up showing the entire drop ship
control panel, his controls and hers.  Her system and been tied
directly to the ships computer and had acted as a flight
recorder.
    "Perhaps, this will help us determine what exactly went
wrong."
    Kartang immediately pushed her out of the way and began
studying the output.
    In the suit room, the other pilots were already being helped
out of their pressure suits.
    "What happened out there, human?" asked Valerta, one of the
Klingon pilots.
    "You and that Klingon almost got us killed." one of the
Kalonians said.
    "I have no idea," O'Malley said "the shields began to buckle
for no apparent reason.  The stresses of landing through even an
atmosphere like that shouldn't have effected it."
    "They had better get it fixed before they send us out in
those things again." said a female human pilot.
    The pilots began complaining amongst themselves.  Even
though O'Malley was also a pilot she wasn't assigned to the drop
ship fleet, therefore, she was an outsider.  She could hear them
refer to her several times and look at her.  It was obvious they
blamed the outsider for their near demise.  Even the humans
didn't seem too sympathetic toward her.
    Ensign O'Malley was out of her pilot's pressure suit before
the others were out of their armor.  To get away from the pilots
as soon as possible she didn't put on her uniform but decided to
carry it back to her cabin.  Wearing the tight black shorts,
tank top and the pressure suit boot liners is how Commander
Tarva found her walking down the hall.
    "Ensign O'Malley, what happened out there?!"
    "Lieutenant Commander Kartang is currently reviewing the
flight recorder, Sir." Janice said coming to attention.
    "Ensign, that is not what I asked you."
    O'Malley hesitated for a second looking straight over
Commander Tarva then said "Sir, the shields seemed unable to
handle the atmosphere burn in.  I did not notice any incorrect
operating procedures."
    "Very well, your complete report will be expected when you
begin your next shift."
    "Aye, Sir." O'Malley said and continued toward her cabin now
at double time.

-----------

    Captain Anthony, Commander Tarva, and Commander Norton sat
quietly in the briefing room off the bridge.  Lieutenant
Commander Kartang was finishing his briefing on the mishap with
Drop Ship 18.  He had presented the complete flight recordings
and the analysis of what little wreckage had been retrieved.
    "It is my conclusion," he said "that the new design
deflector shields where not properly aligned to withstand the
stress of the drop.  Currently all drop ships are being
inspected for similar flaws.  At last report, three other ships
have been found to have improperly aligned deflector shields."
    Tarva looked at him incredulously "So you are trying to pass
the blame of your mistake to technicians who are not here to
defend themselves and whom you will never meet?"  The data he
had presented had clearly supported his analysis, Tarva,
however, still felt the need to test the ebon of the Klingon.
    "No, I am not."  Kartang growled at Tarva "The misaligned
deflectors were within the tolerances set by Design.  I blame
Design for setting improper tolerances."
    "Thank you." Commander Nortan said.  After Kartang had taken
his seat Norton addressed the room  "Taking into account the
other reports and the data from the flight recorders I must come
to the same conclusion." then added "Commander Dolittel has also
came to a similar conclusion."
    Kartang sat back and looked at Tarva.  She could see the
animosity in his eyes but ignored it.
    Captain Anthony finally said "It seems this ship has been
plagued by misalignments.  I am ordering that all ship's systems
be retested.  We are setting tighter tolerances and expect them
to be maintained."

-----------

    Golta checked the readouts below the face shield of his
helmet.  It had taken some getting used to, looking down inside
his helmet with out moving the helmet.  By speaking the
designated codes for the members of team RT-2 he could read all
of their vital signs.  He could also get other information
including a display from their suit camera.
    Golta was proud he had been assigned a position equal to
that of the Klingon.  It would have been intolerable to not only
have to share a room with him but also to be out ranked by him.
As commander of landing forces Golta felt that his position was
much more Glorious.  He and his warriors would do the actual
information retrieval, the whole mission was designed so they
could do their job.  His, would be the most crucial command.
    Right now, he was running a bio-coordination check while
waiting for launch.  All other systems checks had been
completed, the bio-check was always the last.  To get an
accurate mission standard the bio-coordination was taken just
prior to mission initiation.
    The yellow launch light over the bridge door came on
indicating the countdown had commenced.  Golta mentally prepared
himself for launch as the green light came on.  The force of the
launch pressed him into the large seat.  This was his sixth
practice launch and he still cringed behind his darkened face
shield.  As soon as the acceleration of the launch ended, the
large chairs turned toward the center of the Drop Ship for rapid
deployment.
    This drop wasn't any different than the others, the ship
shook violently as it dropped through the planet's atmosphere.
Golta watched the teams vital signs as they dropped to the
surface.  As usual, all including himself showed signs of great
stress.  This worried him, if they ever needed to go into battle
this way, what would the stresses be like then.
    A yellow light in the middle of the cabin began blinking and
the seat restraints opened indicating landing was near.  When it
turned green the back door would drop open and they would file
out in pairs.  It didn't matter where they were or what the
conditions were like.  The suits would protected them,
hopefully.
    Normally, just before the green light came on they could
feel a bump when the ship landed. This time, however, that
didn't happen, the green light came on and the door opened to a
blinding sand storm.  The team didn't hesitate though, the
soldiers stood simultaneously and quickly marched out the back
door two at a time.
    Golta, for this drop, was to be the last off the craft, one
of the first was his second in command, Lieutenant Whitecloud.
She would be acting command for this mission.
    He could hear her sound the warning as she stepped off the
door "Heads up, it's a free fall."

    The ship hadn't landed, in fact, it was over a hundred
meters up and flying at a steady velocity when the door opened.
The pressure suited warriors stepped into thin air.  The
training again paid off, not one of them panicked.  As they
stepped off the door each one stayed perfectly upright and
trusted their equipment.
    The suits immediately calculated approximate altitude and
would begin firing built in boosters just in time to land
safely.  As they fell, the buffeting weather and the blowing
sand totally blinded and shook them.  The suits, however, used
stabilizers to remain up right.  Golta tracked the team  on his
suit's scanners as they fell ahead of him.

    The weather on the surface wasn't any better.  Wind howled
around them restricting vision to the perimeter of the suits
deflector shields.  The  stabilizers fired constantly to keep
the suit on it's feet making movement feel extremely jerky.
    Whitecloud ordered all to switch to their Electronic Vision
Enhancer (EVE).  None of them actually needed to be told to do
this.  When EVE was activated the visor went opaque and showed
an electronically enhanced view.  The view was a composite of
scanner analysis and non-visible light analysis.  The on board
computer then combined and enhanced the output to get a slightly
off color image of what the user should see.
    The team slowly separated into a wide formation with
partners always within sight of each other.  The rest, stayed
within electronic range.  The goal was to survey a large area of
the planet and be at their extraction site at a designated time.
To do this, they would need to be on the move for nearly all of
the next three days.

    The sixteen met at the extraction point on schedule and
Whitecloud initiated the extraction beacon.  Within five minutes
the extraction warning sounded over the suits' communicators.
The drop ship had entered the atmosphere and would be arriving
momentarily.
    "Attention RT-2, extraction beacon pinpointed, E T A 10
minutes."  came the voice of the female Klingon known as
Valerta.
    "Acknowledged." Whitecloud said.  The team put some distance
between themselves and the beacon.
    The wind continued to howl around them as they waited for
the drop ship to arrive.  The storm was stronger now then it had
been since they were dropped.  They couldn't hear the ship but
EVE allowed them to see it dropping toward them.  The ship was
being shaken severely by the continuing storm.  They could see
it buck through the multiple wind vortexes as it descended ever
closer.
    "E T A 2 minutes" Valerta said obviously shaking.
    "This is going to be a tough one" Golta commented.
    "I'll do it." Valerta said confidently though still shaking.
    "Maybe they should have beamed us out." one of the team
said.
    "That would defeat the whole point of the exercise." said
Whitecloud.  She had lead and coordinated the whole mission, she
wasn't about to let her first chance at leadership be
anti-climaxed by a beam out.
    The drop ship landed hard next to the beacon.  They could
hear a thump through the storm and filters in the helmets.  A
large cloud of yellow dust was thrown up around the ship.  EVE
allowed the team to see that the ship appeared to be intact but
they weren't sure.  Procedure dictated that they keep their
distance until they were sure the ship was safe.
    A minute after landing they saw the back door drop open and
heard Valerta yelling "Lets go, I don't have all day, move,
move, move."
    The team immediately began to move as quickly as they could
to the drop ship.  Valerta kept the shields raised until the
last possible moment to protect the ship from the wind and sand.
When she dropped the rear shields to allow them access a strong
vortex of wind also got through and lifted the back of the drop
ship.  The four already in the ship were dropped toward the
cabin while the three on the door were thrown back off.
    The rear of the drop ship lifted several meters and the
whole ship pivoted to port.  As it swung, the open door/ramp
caught Ensign Mueller in the neck.  Since all suit deflector
shields had been shut down to allow for the close proximity of
boarding the door made direct contact with his helmet.  The
force of the impact threw him to ground and slightly separated
the helmet from the suit.
    Golta's warning alarm for Ensign Mueller signaled the
breach.  "Control, we have a suit breach." he said as he went to
the soldier's aid.
    Kartang's voice came over the intercom "Get your team out of
there, Kalonian.  You know the training regulations about
beaming out a drop team."
    The suit stabilizers had also been shut down just prior to
boarding.  This caused the troops on the ground to loose
stability in the wind.  Golta, as a result had difficulty
reaching Mueller.
    When Golta reached him, he could see the Ensign struggling
inside his suit.  The planet's atmosphere was not toxic but the
ultra fine dust of the sand storm was blowing directly into his
face.  The boy, though highly trained, was beginning to panic as
he couldn't breath, see or get back on his feet.  The EVE had
been disabled, and his nose, mouth and eyes were filling with
dust.
    The fist thing Golta did was activate what was suppose to be
the suit's automatic sealing.  The separated joint immediately
filled with a black gel and the life support systems started
filtering out the dust.  Golta then grabbed the ensign by an arm
and pulled him to his feet.
    Valerta had finally stabilized the drop ship and the
remaining crew were boarding.  Golta and Ensign Mueller just
two meters away, started for the ship.  Lieutenant Whitecloud
had gotten the rest of the crew into the ship and met Golta and
Mueller at the bottom of the ramp.
    "All other hands secured." she said as she grabbed under
Mueller's other arm and helped Golta get him into the ship.
    As soon as they were half-way up the ramp Whitecloud yelled
to her intercom "Close It!".  The ramp immediately lifted them
into the ship.
    Once the door was closed Golta started trying to get the
helmet off of Mueller.  Between the bulk of his own armor and
the drop ship rocking up through the atmosphere it was not an
easy task.  It turned out, that the helmet was not damaged, just
separated from the suit.
    "This suit wasn't damaged." Golta growled to Whitecloud.
    "What happened to it?" she asked as she strapped herself in.
    "I don't know." Golta replied as he finally pulled the
helmet from the suit.
    Whitecloud checked Mueller's vital signs in her suit
monitors when she heard the vital sign warning.  "Sir, he's not
breathing." she said and started to unstrap herself.
    "Stay in your seat." Golta commanded as he pulled off his
own helmet.
    Ensign Mueller was having a sever allergic reaction to the
dust blown into his suit.  He was now trying to grasp at his
throat as it swelled shut.  Golta tilted Mueller's head back
trying to keep the air way open but the swelling had closed it
off.
    "Vigilante" he yelled "Medical Emergency, Ensign Mueller has
suffered a sever allergic reaction his throat has swollen shut."
    As he finished talking the ship shook severely and tilted
forward.  Golta and Mueller slid across the deck between the
feet of his team and crashed against the forward bulkhead.  The
helmets also bounced off the wall next to him and he let out a
primal Kalonian scream.
    "Valerta," he yelled "get it steady, We've got problems back
here."
    "Sir, I must increase to exit velocity or we won't make it."
she said.
    Golta hesitated for a second then ordered "Make it so."
    All landing chairs automatically turned forward for
impending acceleration.  Valerta then warned "Prepare for
acceleration to exit velocity. 5..4.."
    Golta lay over the ensign, straddling him, as he was trying
to activate the suits automatic medication.  He had not yet even
had time to remove his gloves so it was difficult finding the
controls inside the collar of the suit.
    "3..2.."
    The manual overrides inside the collar were designed mostly
for maintenance and testing.  Since the suit had been
deactivated for boarding the advanced life support was not
functioning.  The boy was beginning to turn blue and had gone
unconscious.
    "His pulse is getting weak" Whitecloud said frantically.
    "1..0..increasing to exit velocity."
    Golta totally lay over the Ensign and wrapped his arms
around his back and held Mueller's head to his chest trying to
protect it.  The acceleration threw them back across the ship
against the landing door.
    Pinkish red blood gushed from a gash across Golta's temple
but Mueller was unhurt.  Golta continued to work against the
acceleration while pressed up to the back door.
    Golta sat up, screamed again and began trying to remove one
of his gloves.  When it came off he threw it forward against the
cabin door and immediately stuck his hand back down the ensign's
suit.  He could barely hear a faint hiss as the suit injected
the boy with the needed drug to help reduce the swelling.
    "Pulse seems to have stabilized" Whitecloud informed him
"but he's still not breathing."
    The Drop ship shuddered again and leaned hard to port
slamming Golta and the Ensign against the back of one of the
chairs of their comrades.
    "His throat's still swollen." Golta said after trying to
breath into him.  He then grabbed an emergency kit mounted on
the wall above him.  Inside was an assortment of emergency
medical supplies.  "Normal airways won't work" he said as he
pulled out a long skinny tube. "I'm going to use a nasal
airway".
    "Valerta,  What's our ETA to transporter range?"  Whitecloud
said as she watched Golta slide the tube into Mueller's nose.
    "The Vigilante will not transport while we're outside their
shields on any Drop Ship training mission." Valerta replied then
added "ETA to Vigilante 5 minutes."
    Once the tube was in place, Ensign Mueller arched his back
as he struggled to catch his breath through it.  "He should make
it."  Golta's deep voice sounded grave.  They still lay against
the back door held there by the acceleration.
    Whitecloud watched the Kalonian holding Mueller's head back
trying to keep the airway open.  He was also closely examining
the suit trying to decide what had gone wrong with it.
    The vibration of the Drop Ship's acceleration began to
lesson and the g-forces began to decrease.  "We are clear of the
atmosphere" Valerta declared "ETA to Vigilante 2 minutes".
    "Lieutenant Commander Golta to Vigilante". Golta sounded
relieved.
    "Kartang here." was the immediate reply.
    "Prepare to fix on my signal and transport directly to Sick
bay".
    "Acknowledged."
    "Entering Vigilante's shields." Valerta reported.
    As soon as the drop ship entered the shield sphere Golta and
Ensign Mueller disappeared.

-----------

    Still dressed in full armor and walking back to shuttle bay
three is how Lieutenant Whitecloud found Golta.  She had already
showered and changed to her duty uniform when she went looking
for him.
    Lieutenant Anndrea Whitecloud had shoulder length black
hair, tide back in a pony tail and held with a small silver and
turquoise clasp.  Her skin was still brown from the outdoor
lifestyle she lived on earth before volunteering for this
mission.
    "Sir, How is Ensign Mueller?" she said as she turned back to
where she had just come in order to walk with him.
    "Ensign Mueller will recover shortly."
    Whitecloud noticed that the cut on Golta's temple had been
healed but left as a scar.  "I see that the Meds on this ship
are familiar with proper Kalonian care."
    "Yes, one of the perks of having a Kalonian as First
Officer."
    "Sir, have you discovered why Mueller's suit failed?"
    "I investigated it before I allowed them to remove him from
it.  Apparently, Ensign Mueller was too anxious to get out of
the armor and disengaged one backup system too many."
    "Then the fault was his and not the suit?"
    "Correct, the suit did not fail, Ensign Mueller did."
    The pair turned a final corner and headed into the shuttle
bay.

-----------

    Later that day Ensign Whitecloud sat cross legged in the
front room of her quarters.  In front of her, on a low stand was
a large, half finished painting, her current project.  It was
the picture of a large brown bird with a white head and yellow
beak and talons.  It soared over blue-gray mountains far below.
She meticulously painted each feather of the bird.
    Anndrea was so preoccupied with her painting she did not
hear her room mate come in, but knew she was there.
    "What is it?" the other woman said.
    Anndrea was not easily startled or distracted she took the
time to finish the area she was working on before turning her
attention.
    "It's a Bald Eagle."
    "I've heard of eagles before." said the woman "but I've
never seen a real one.  Have you?"
    Anndrea looked at her room mate.  With short bright red hair
Janice was at the extreme opposite end of the scale then her.
    "I took my leave of absence to work in a breading reserve
for these birds."
    "I've only been to Earth for short vacations and shore
leave."  Janice said as she took off her uniform jacket and
threw it on her bed.  "And, I've always spent that time shopping
in the big cities.  I love discovering new cities."
    "You've never spent any time visiting the Earth wilderness?"
    "It just never seemed to be a priority.  I've always been
fascinated by what people have built.  Earth has such a rich
history, it's like traveling back in time."  Janice had wandered
into the other room, she was laying on her bunk looking out at
Anndrea.
    "I heard that you grew up on VEGA-5" Anndrea said while she
packed up her paints.
    "Yea, I lived on the streets until I was twelve."  Janice
replied uninterested.
    "I would think that you would have had enough of cities."
She said as she secured the unfinished painting on a wall near a
finished picture of a traditional Native American encampment.
    "Enough of cities?  Are you nuts, cities are my home, I
don't feel comfortable without people around me."  Janice had
rolled onto her back and was looking up at the ceiling, her
short red hair hung over the foot of her bunk.  Painted on the
ceiling was the shadow of a coyote against a full moon.  It was
Whitecloud's first contribution to decorating the room.  Under
the painting Whitecloud had recently added a poem she'd found in
the computer's library.  She thought it was from a collection
the Captain had up loaded.

        Go to the Wild that waits for me;
        Go where the moose and the musk-ox be;
        Go to the wolf and the secret snows;
        Go to my fate...who knows, who knows!
                                          R.W.S.

    "Tell me," Janice said "everybody know's how and why I came
to be here, what's your story?"
    "It's not very interesting."  Whitecloud said sitting on her
own bed across from Janice.
    Janice sat up and looked at her room mate. "I'm interested."
she said.
    "Well" Anndrea began "I was born on Earth in what is known
as a 'reservation'.  Reservations are areas in North America
that were set aside for Native Americans to live as separate
cultural entities.  Some still live traditional ancient
lifestyles and many are moving back to them.  It is the current
thought that if you are not going to live a traditional
lifestyle, why live on the reservation.
    "My parents, in fact my tribe, was obsessed with returning
to the ancient way of life.  It was decided that it was
impossible to do on Earth.  That the land was not suited for
people to be living off of it with out also depending on the
modern world.  As a people, they decided to look else where for
a place to colonize in a 'traditional Native American culture'.
    "The tribe applied to the Infiniti West Corporation for a
land grant.  Since we were the first large traditional group to
apply to the I.W.C. for colonization we were granted a very
generous portion.  In order to pay for transportation the tribe
sold it's lands and boarded a colony ship for Infiniti West.  I
was two years old when we walked off our ancestral land for the
last time.  My mother told me that ...."

    ....A darkly tanned teenage girl rode a tall brown horse
across an endless prairie.  She rode bare back accept for the
bedroll and other camping supplies strapped behind her.  She had
long, straight, black hair tied back by a thin leather thong
with a bright red feather hanging from it.  She wore a simple
brown buck-skin dress decorated with small beads and fringe.
With her, rode two younger males both dressed in similar
primitive garb.
    They topped a small hill and looked out over the endless
plain around them.  "How far do you think?" the older of the
boys asked the girl.
    "We could be home late tonight." she said.
    "I can't wait to tell them about the mountains" said the
younger boy.
    "It's amazing, that after all these years, the tribe's never
gone that far east" said the first boy.
    "It may have," replied the girl "we just don't remember."
    "I'd think somebody would have mentioned mountains that
reach beyond the clouds." said the older boy.
    The girl looked at the boy and said "We came here all the
way from EARTH."  almost in awe of the fact. "Do you think that
any mountains would have impressed them?"
    "You believe that?" the younger boy said "My brother told me
that the story about Earth and the Federation is just a campfire
story."
    "Your brother is just a trouble maker, he's almost old
enough to remember." replied the girl.
    "If this Federation tribe really existed then why have we
never seen them?" the younger boy insisted.
    "Never seen them?" the girl looked astonished "what about
the ships we see in the sky at night?"
    "I don't see ships," the boy continued repeating his
brother's words "I only see lights.  We've just been told
they're ships, to keep us in line 'behave yourself, or we'll
send you up to the Federation'.  Every parent uses that, they
say you just sparkle and disappear. I've never seen anybody just
sparkle and disappear, have you?"
    During the conversation the older boy was looking to the
west in the direction they had been riding.  "What's that?" he
said pointing to the horizon.
    A faint orange glow had appeared on the horizon and was
growing.
    The girl looked at it for a second and said "I don't know,
but its getting bigger".
    "It's not getting bigger," the older boy said "it's getting
closer.".
    "It's a Space Ship!" the younger boy shouted excitedly.
    As the ship got closer they could hear the roar of its
engines.  It was wedge shaped and looked slightly battered.  As
it got closer, it started to gain altitude.  When it was over
them the three were jumping and waving at it.  It seemed to
wiggle a bit as if it were waving back at them.  Within minutes,
it had shrunk to a dot above them, then disappeared.
    "Wow that was great." the younger boy said now in total awe.
    "I thought you didn't believe in space ships." the girl said
with a laugh.
    "I do now.  What do you think it was doing here? I wonder if
the clan saw it"
    "I would think so, It must have flown right over them." the
girl replied.
    The older boy had turned toward the west again and was
squinting at the horizon.
    "What is it," the other boy said "is there another one?".
    "No."
    "What is it?" the girl asked now looking back to the horizon
herself.
    "I think I see smoke." the older boy said cautiously.
    "That's impossible, we never build fires like that."
    "I know, that's why I'm worried."
    The girl leaned forward over her horse's neck and squinted
at the horizon.  "My God," she said "I see it too."
    "That's were Camp should be." the older boy added.
    They sat and looked at each other for a moment then kicked
their horses to a gallop.  Heading toward a faint pillar of
smoke on the horizon in the mid-morning sun the trio rode harder
then they ever had.
    As the day wore on, the smoke slowly dissipated but the
three still rode hard.  With the sun settling on the ground
ahead of them the youths crested a hill over camp.  Ahead of
them was what they feared most.  The remains of tee-pees lay
smoldering where they had stood just a few days earlier.  About
them lay their former possessions and other charred debris.
    The trio sat on their horses staring at the scene, unmoving.
No one moved for minutes, finally the girl slid from her horse
and ran down the hill.  The other two soon followed leaving the
three horses on the hill.
    They instinctively ran to the places their own tents once
stood, but there was no sign of life.  The youngest boy stood in
the middle of a smoldering black patch of earth, crying.  The
older boy sat on a log next to his tent, his favorite place to
watch the sun set.  The girl began examining the wreckage trying
to discover what had happened.
    She finally looked closely at some of the blackened debris,
she barely recognized it as a person.
    "Were are all the people?" she could hear the younger boy
say.
    "They're right here." she whispered as the shock set in.
    She heard some moaning but it wasn't coming from her friends
it was from someplace else.  She straightened up and listen for
the sound, it was coming from the creek.
    She ran to the bank but was afraid to look over, at first.
When she did, she wasn't sure what she saw.  Laying in the mud
at the edge of the stream appeared to be a woman covered in mud
and grime.  A large black holed was burned in her back and blood
poured from the many cuts and gouges over her body.  As the girl
approached she thought she looked familiar but wasn't sure.  It
wasn't until she recognized the remains of an anklet the woman
wore did she know whom she approached.
    "Mom!" she cried and fell to her knees in the mud next to
the woman.
    The woman opened her eyes, still bright and clear,
"Anndrea," she whispered "thank God you weren't here.."
    Anndrea cradled her mother's head in her lap "don't worry
mom, you'll be all right, I promise." she said through her
tears.
    "No dear," the woman choked "my time has come, I just ....
for you, my love."
    "Who did this, why?" Anndrea gasped.
    "Pirates...don't know why...just came." the woman turned to
look at her daughter.  "You must leave this place, this planet
has nothing left for you...promise me...go to the Fort...go to
the Federation .."
    "I promise" the girl cried.
    Bubbles of blood formed on the woman's lips as she exhaled
her last breath.

    The three children sat on their horses over looking the
favorite summer valley of their clan.  From behind them, the
morning sun cast long shadows in front of them towards their
past.  They could not identify any of the rest of the clan, they
just left them where they were.  Outside of the village circle
was the single grave they had spent the night digging.
    Anndrea turned to her two friends and said "I'm going to the
Fort."
    "Aren't you going with us to the other clan?" the older boy
asked.
    "No, I promised I would leave, and that is what I'm going to
do."
    "I want to leave too." the younger boy said as tears poured
down his face.
    "You must find the other clan, that is where you belong.
The tribe must know of what has happened here."
    They were all too tired to argue, they hugged each other
from their horses then parted ways.  The girl headed north and
the two boys headed south.
    A darkly tanned teenage girl rode a tall brown horse  across
an endless prairie.  She rode bare back accept for the bedroll
and other camping supplies strapped behind her.  She had long,
straight black hair tied back by a thin leather thong with a
bright red feather hanging from it.  She wore a simple brown
buck-skin dress decorated with small beads and fringe.  Ahead of
the girl was a large walled compound with two large doors
standing open, waiting for her....

    Whitecloud never finished her sentence, just sat looking
into the room.
    'What ever happened to her on Infiniti West must still be
too hard to speak of' O'Malley thought.  Janice sat next to
Anndrea and held her while she cried for her memories.  Even
warriors were allowed to cry, occasionally.
    Anndrea sat up pushed her hair out of her face "I have my
first solo command in a few hours, I'd better start prepareing."
she stood and went into the head.

-----------

    "Captain Anthony, Sir, I read a ship entering this sector."
It was O'Malley's turn to stand watch on the sensors.
    "Can you project a course for it yet?" the Captain asked
from the Command room.
    "Yes Sir, it's current trajectory will bring it on a tangent
to this system.  They won't need to alter their course until the
last minute to enter.  At current warp ETA is, 5 hours 15
minutes."
    "Keep an eye on them, if they show any sign of actually
paying this system a visit let me know."
    "Aye, sir"
    Several hours later Captain Anthony sat in his quarters
reviewing deployment scenarios submitted by Lt Commanders
Kartang and Golta when the yellow alert signal light came on.
At the same time there was the piping sound on the ship wide
communications followed by commander Tarva saying  "Captain
Anthony, report to the bridge."
    Anthony hit his comm button and said "I'm on my way." then
headed into the hall.  Two meters down the hall a turbo lift
stood opened waiting for him.  When he entered, the door shut
quickly and the lift accelerated toward the bridge without
command.
    "Commander Tarva, Report." Anthony said as soon as he
stepped off the lift.
    The rest of the main bridge crew was already at their
stations.
    "Sir, the incoming ship has continued its course on a
tangent to this system but we have picked up extremely intense
scanners directed towards the system.  The yellow alert was
automatically activated by ACT.  It seems that the system
perceives these scans as a threat and has begun shifting the
cloaking frequencies to compensate." Tarva reported.
    "Automatic frequency shifting is designed to compensate for
the intense Borg scanners." Anthony said as he took his chair.
Then after some thought asked "Do we have a make on the ship
yet?"
    "Sir all we have is that it's a Federation Pentalia class,
perhaps a scout ship." Ensign O'Malley reported.
    "Sir, there are no Federation scanner systems that would
cause ACT to automatically initiate phase frequency shifting of
the cloaking." Commander Norton said.
    "Perhaps, you should say there are no systems that we are
aware of." Anthony commented with a smile.
    "That, would be more accurate." Norton agreed.
    "Perhaps we should bring in any training missions we have
out." Tarva suggested.
    "Agreed." Commander Norton said then signaled the 'Cavern'
"Lieutenant Commander Kartang, are there any training teams
planet side?"
    "A drop ship is collecting the last team at this time."
Kartang replied.
    "Please keep us appraised of their progress."
    "Aye Sir, Kartang out."
    "Sir," Ensign O'Malley said "the ship has dropped out of
warp and is concentrating it's scans on this area."
    "That's not possible," Tarva said "it couldn't possibly read
us from that distance and there's no way it could see the team
on the surface."
    "Have all hands prepare for silent running." Anthony said to
Tarva then to Norton "Have they zeroed in on anything yet?"
    "No sir, they just keep doing wide sweeps, like their seeing
shadows or something."
    "Ensign O'Malley what's their current status?" Anthony
turned to the red head.
    "Sir, they're heading toward us now at three quarters
impulse, they should be here in about forty eight minutes."
    "I read a high energy release on the planet" Norton
reported.
    "Bridge, Drop Ship Control here." came Kartang's voice over
the intercom.
    "Go ahead." replied Commander Tarva.
    "Sir, Drop Ship 21 has crashed on lift off" Kartang said
almost frantically.
    "Survivors?" Captain Anthony demanded.
    "With the storm and the ACT systems in the ship and suits it
is impossible to tell.  Sir, request permission to launch a
rescue mission!"
    "How many unaccounted for?"
    "Two pilots and a full sixteen member landing team."
    "Sir," O'Malley Interrupted "The ship has increased to full
impulse and has a projected course to enter our exact orbit.
New ETA five minutes."
    "They have concentrated full scanner activity on the area of
the crash site."  Norton added.
    Anthony swung his command chair around to get a full look at
his bridge crew.  All, like himself, were strapped into their
duty chairs in preparation for silent running.  "Mr. Norton,
initiate silent running.  Mr. Kartang, permission denied, send a
message to any survivors to hang tight we'll come get them as
soon as possible.  Helm take us to an opposite geo-synchronous
orbit, maybe we can repeat that incident with the Raptor."
    The Vigilante adjusted it's current geo-synchronous orbit
over their training area to one directly on the opposite side of
the planet.  The movement was so smooth it was not perceptible
to any of the crew.
    "Sir, I'm picking up a transmission from the surface, audio
only." Norton said.
    "Put it on the speaker"
    The speakers for the view screen immediately erupted in
static.  "This is the best I can do" Norton said as he made
adjustments.
    A female voice could barely be heard through the noise:
<Vigilante...twelve...survive...suits held..one day...failure..>
the rest of the message was inaudible.
    "What are they doing, don't they know we have company?"
Tarva said.
    "They did not acknowledge our warnings to them just before
the crash." Norton advised her.
    "Sir, the Ship has taken up orbit where predicted, and they
have shields at maximum." Norton reported.  He then made new
adjustments at the comm center "I now have a transmission from
the ship, directed to the planet."
    The sound was much cleaner and a male voice said:
<Attention planet side, this is the U.S.S. Delphi, please
identify yourselves, we are prepared to offer assistance if
needed.>
    Anthony immediately turned to Commander Norton and said "Get
me all you can on the Delphi and the Pentalia class ships."
    "Aye, Sir." Norton said as he started working his console.
    "Captain," O'Malley spoke up "The Delphi has transported an
away team to the planet."
    "How close to our people is their team?" Tarva asked.
    "Can't tell, the armor is deflecting our scans."
    There had been a long pause from the planet then the high
static began again and the female voice came back:

 <This...private registry trans...Vigi..., request evacuat...six
survive.>

    "My God, they've lost twelve." Ensign O'Malley whispered.
    "If they get evacuated, they'll initiate Drop Ship self
destruct." Tarva said.  She then turned to the intercom and
signaled Chief Swanson.

    <Say again, how many survivors?  Our scans do not indicate
any lifesigns.>

    "Swanson, here." came a woman's voice.
    "Chief, we need to beam aboard all personnel on the far side
of the planet, can we do it?" Tarva said quickly.
    "We're currently out of range, sir."
    "Damn, the planet's in the way" Anthony said "Helm, move us
into transport range best speed."
    "Aye, Sir." replied the helmsman.
    "Prepare to transport." Tarva said to the intercom then
immediately started entering timings and frequencies to
coordinate the transport.

    After another long pause, the voice came back:
<...sheltered...debris. There...six, repeat six...request...
evacuation...>
    <Confirmed, we now read six survivors, prepare for emergency
transport.>

    O'Malley then reported "The survivors of the Drop Ship have
been transported, the away team is still on the planet."
    "Tarva to Chief Swanson prepare to transport."
    "Watching for the signal, now." she replied.
    "Sir," Norton said "I have the specs for the Pentalia class
ships but I'm unable to find any registry for the Delphi, in any
class."
    "Who ever they are, they have six of my crew."  Anthony then
turned to his intercom "Mr Kartang, I'll need a roster for the
team and drop ship crew we just misplaced."
    "Aye, Sir."
    Captain Anthony saw a note immediately appear on his log
screen:  Drop Ship 21 Crew and Roster.

-----------

    Six figures appeared in a standard Federation transporter
room.   A female Klingon and a male Kalonian stood on either
side, 2 human males were kneeling over the form of a Vulcan.
They all had portable full-face breathers strapped or held to
their faces.
    The sixth stood in the center of the semicircle.  She was a
female with shoulder length straight black hair and had the
portable breather strapped properly over her face.  All six wore
one piece, snug fitting, flat gray body suits with wires and
connectors sticking out from them.
    The woman made an obvious move towards a tricorder-like
device she was holding.  She managed to press one button.
    A security officer saw this and yelled "Look out,  she's got
a weapon!" and fired his phaser at her.

                           to be continued..........
---------------



                   T H E   V I G I L A N T E

                              IIIB

                         "The Warriors"
                          (continued)


Hark to the ewe that bore him:
  "What had muddied the strain?
Never his brothers before him
  Showed the hint of a stain."
Hark to the tups and wethers;
  Hark to the old gray ram:
"We're all of us white, but he's black as night,
  And he'll never be worth a damn."
            "The Black Sheep"
            Robert W. Service





    Six figures appeared in a standard Federation transporter
room.   A female Klingon and a male Kalonian stood on either
side of 2 human males who were kneeling over the form of a
Vulcan.  They all had portable, full-face breathers strapped or
held to their faces.
    The sixth stood in the center of the semicircle.  She
was a female with shoulder length straight black hair and
had the portable breather strapped properly over her face.
All six wore one piece, snug fitting, flat gray body suits
with wires and connectors sticking out from them.
    The woman made an obvious move towards a tricorder-like
device she was holding.  She managed to press one button.
    A security officer saw this and yelled "Look out,  she's
got a weapon!" and fired his phaser at her.
    The doors to the transporter room snapped opened and a blue
skinned Andorian rushed in, phaser in hand.  He was just in time
to see the Klingon female pull off her mask, growling, and rush
toward the security man.
    The Andorian's shot hit first as the security man's second
shot immediately followed.  The Klingon grunted and dropped to
one knee.
    "Identify yourselves." the Andorian hissed, his antennae
twitching slightly.
    Anndrea Whitecloud looked at the blue-skinned figure.  Blue
antennae protruded from his white hair.  His teeth were bared
and gleamed white.  She watched as his thumb clicked on the
phaser, she knew that he was increasing the setting.
    The transporter room had quite a few other people in it.
The most prominent were the mustard-yellow of security although
there were a couple of blue-shirts and the red-shirted
blue-skinned humanoid.
    "We have injured. Get your doctors to work." Whitecloud
demanded.
     The Andorian hissed as he motioned to the doctor and her
assistant. He was about to address the female when a Yeoman
interrupted him.
    "Sir! Bridge reports that a high intensity explosion has
just been registered on the planet's surface."
    "Coordinates? The team? " he was veritably snarling.
    "Bridge reports no survivors." he continued "Sir, I believe
that she activated some form of detonation device."
    Bronsdale piped in, "Sir, she just killed Assali, Meede and
Albert!"
    "You had no business in putting an away team down there."
Whitecloud said.
    The Andorian motioned with his hand.  "Add extra security,
even to those in sickbay." his voice deathly quiet, his gaze
locked with that of Whitecloud.  The doctor began moving the
others out.
    "But sir!! She is responsible for ..."
    A beam from the Andorian's phaser cut the man short sending
him senseless.  He then stared back at the female remaining on
the transporter pad.  "That is quite enough Yeoman", he hissed.
    "And that is quite enough as well, LIEUTENANT Qhasmon, you
will return to the bridge NOW, I will speak with you later."
    A new man stepped into the transporter room. Now, only
himself and three security men remained in the room with
Whitecloud.  One of the three was the unconscious form of the
man the Andorian had shot.
    Whitecloud instinctively came to attention when she saw the
pips in the man's collar.  His features were almost youthful,
save for the steely glint in his blue eyes and the firmness he
had held in his voice.
    "Sir, the woman ..."  one of the men began.
    "That is enough Yeoman Upaw. I am aware of the situation."
The Captain was terse with the Yeoman.
    The Captain looked at the woman, she appeared to be about as
tall as he, around 5' 8".  She had darkly tanned skin and
straight black hair, her eyes were dark and defiant.  She had
sharp angular features that would be considered beautiful and
exotic in almost any human culture, as well as some non-human
ones.
    "Your name, please." The Captain said formally.
    "Anndrea Smith." She was not a very creative liar.
    "Very well, 'Ms. Smith', Security officer Seneschal will
escort you to medical, then we shall meet.  We have much to
discuss."
    "Yes, Sir." she replied reflexively.
    The Captain stared ahead at the transporter, feeling older.
He was aware of the Yeoman at the transporter control panel.
"Attend to Mr. .... Bronsdale.." Captain Percival Malory turned
and left, leaving Upaw to help a now groggy Yeoman Bronsdale.

--------------

    Chief Swanson watched the three appear on the transporter.
She still found it difficult to get used to the speed of these
new transporters.  There was minimal of the standard sparkling,
the subject just suddenly appeared.
    The landing party appeared in very unusual poses, they were
covering or averting their eyes as if from a bright light.  She
wasn't surprised, however, since she had to time it extremely
close.  She not only had to wait for the destruct command from
the Drop Ship survivors, but also had to time it so she pulled
them out just before the effects of the explosion reached them.
Otherwise, the Delphi may have noticed them 'die' early and
investigate further which is something they were trying to
avoid.
    "Excellent timing," the shortest one began as he pulled off
his helmet.  When he got it clear he looked at the tall blond
female human standing behind the control panel.  "Who are you,
and why have you brought us here?".
    "Sir," another said "I don't think this is the Delphi."
They all instinctively reached for their phasers, the short one
finding his first.
    "I wish you wouldn't do that." said a voice from the door.
It was a medium-built, bald, pointed-eared humanoid who was also
wearing the same baggy black uniform.  With him, was half a
dozen others all wearing the same uniform.  They carried large,
strange looking phasers and wore no rank insignia.  The little
insignia they were wearing, however, did appear to be standard
Star Fleet.
    "Mister, I demand an explanation, who are you people?." said
the tallest of the three.
    At the same time the short human was trying to raise the
Delphi on his communicator.
    "That won't be necessary," said the Vulcan, "this room is
quite shielded."
    The man continued to try to contact his ship but to no
avail.  The three didn't lower their weapons, at first, while
they assessed the situation.  What finally forced their decision
was not the security pointing their own phasers at them, but the
transporter chief holding her hand over a button on the console.
Anyone with respect for the transporter, knew better than to get
an operator disturbed with them while standing on the pad.
    As soon as they lowered their phasers two of the six who had
entered with the Volcan circulated relieving them of their
equipment.  They then took off the remainder of their
environmental suits.
    "Now I'd like to welcome you aboard, I'm Commander Norton"
the Vulcan said.  "I apologize for abruptly transporting you
like we did.  But the Captain didn't see any other option."
    The tallest stepped forward and said "I am Commander Assali,
First Officer of the U.S.S. Delphi."  he then indicated the
others "and these are Lieutenant Meede, and Midshipmen Albert.
Now, we'd like to know just who you people are, who's in charge
and why we can not contact our ship."
    "All in due time, Commander." Norton said "Now if you'd
follow these men to your temporary quarters.  I'm sure, that
after that storm you'd like to get cleaned up."
    "Sir," Commander Assali said the word sarcastically "We are
not going anywhere until we get some answers."
    Norton hesitated for a minute then produced an old style
communicator from one his large pockets and spoke quietly into
it.  When he was finished he snapped it shut and dropped it back
into the pocket.  "Commander, All I am authorized to tell you,
at this time, is that The Delphi stumbled onto a top secret Star
Fleet project during a training accident.  Much information
beyond that, would make you and your crew extremely difficult to
safely release, especially if your going to be stationed in this
quadrant."
    "I'm sorry, that is not sufficient, Sir." Lieutenant Meede
said.
    Norton thought for a second then said "Okay if that's the
way you want it.  Chief Swanson, I'd like you to totally disable
the transporter in this room." He then turned to one of his men
and said "Make sure all computer interface is disconnected
except for the food replicator.
    "Gentlemen, this is not one of the more comfortable quarters
to billet in and the head has minimal wash facilities.  But
since this is were you wish to remain, we're flexible."
    The three turned and whispered among themselves then Assali
turned back to Commander Norton "Standard quarters will be
sufficient until such time we are returned to the Delphi."
    The Vulcan smiled and said "Very good".

    The security personnel escorted the three out of the
transporter room.  On the trip to their quarters they saw a some
more of the ship.  The hallways were narrow, spartin, and purely
utilitarian.  The room next to the transporter room they arrived
in, had another transporter.  They could see as they walked by
that the room was extremely large and had several large open
doors into it.  It appeared to have facilities to transport over
one hundred personnel at a time, but that seemed ridiculous.
    They arrived at the door to a billet, which slid open
crisply to admit them.  "The quarters in this section are
designed for four occupants.  The replicators can provide for
any of your needs, so make yourselves comfortable."  said one of
the guards.
    "We are confined to these quarters?" asked the Lieutenant.
    "In essence, yes" said the security guard. "The Captain and
First Officer would like to speak to you soon and hopefully
answer some of your questions"  At that, the guards waited for
their guests to enter their quarters and then took their
stations on either side of the door.

-----------

    "Sir, We have the transmission from Star Base 89" said the
Delphi's communications officer, Lt. Penthrach.
    "Thank you Mr Penthrach" Captain Malory said to his intercom
in his ready room.  He then sat back in his chair and punched
the files up on his console. He had been awaiting this
transmission since getting the retina scans.
    Each file was accompanied by the usual poor quality visual.
Captain Malory browsed through the first page of each file.

              NAME    : William Jacob Collins
              RANK    : Ensign
              POSITION: Flight Specialist
                        U.S.S. AMBARTSUMIAN NCC-3817
              NOTES   : Ship destroyed by engine core
                        failure, all hands lost
                        Star-date 46998.

              NAME    : Joseph Franz
              RANK    : Yoeman
              POSITION: Security Specialist
                        U.S.S. EL CID NCC-534-B
              NOTES   : Killed in action during boarder
                        skirmish with Cardaseans
                        Star-date 47310.

              NAME    : S'Turlek
              RANK    : Ensign
              POSITION: Junior Science Officer
                        U.S.S. TONTI NCC-599
              NOTES   : Missing assumed dead after shuttle
                        disappeared near Neutral Zone
                        Star-date 47329.

              NAME    : Anndrea Clay-Dove Whitecloud
              RANK    : Lieutenant, Junior Grade
              POSITION: Assistant Chief of Security
                        U.S.S. REGULUS NCC-1840-C
              NOTES   : Killed in Transporter accident
                        Star-date 47360.

              From KLINGON Imperial Fleet HQ
              NAME    : K'Lerana Valerta Krogg
              RANK    : Commander
              POSITION: Command Pilot
                        Reconnaissance ship TRARLON
              NOTES   : Ship Lost while on classified mission.


              SUBJECT : KALONIAN National;
                        Star Fleet has no record of the Kalonian
                        subject.

              NOTE    : The Kalonian Defense Force (K.D.F)
                        maintains it's policy to protect the
                        privacy of all it's Citizens.

Captain Malory reread the information, then made a decision.

 ----------

    "Who are these people?" Lieutenant Meede stormed.
    "We'll find out soon enough." Commander Assali said coolly.
    "We need to exercise utmost caution. We have been abducted
by an unknown force.  This clearly constitutes a hostile act.
If these were Star Fleet officers, they sure as HELL wouldn't
treat other officers in such a manner.  I suggest we make mental
preparations for becoming hostages... That 'Commander Norton',
looked suspiciously Romulan to me..."

    The storm had left them quite grimy even under the
environment suits so they were taking turns using the head.
Midshipman Albert came walking out freshly showered.  The two
officers were too busy planning to get cleaned up so he had
taken the first shift in the shower, it did feel good.  Since
his uniform had gotten quite dirty, he ordered a fresh one from
the replicator.  Before putting it on he took some time to look
through the drawers near the replicator.
    "Sirs, you might want to see this." he pulled out a
laminated card that was stuck in the back of one of the draws.

Welcome aboard the U.S.S. Vigilante.

--- There will be a mandatory meeting for all personnel at
    0830 in shuttle bay 1.  This should give all a chance to
    get settled.  All crew assignments will be handed out at
    this time.

--- Ship's uniforms are available from the replicators in
    each room just program required size.  Standard Star
    Fleet issue boots are appropriate. (a slight wait may be
    necessary, full power is currently not on line)

--- Please make yourself as comfortable as possible,
    as soon as more quarters are finished they will be
    assigned.

    The two officers looked at the card then Assali said "It
really doesn't tell us much.  Except maybe the name of the
ship."
    "It fits" Meede interjected "That original hail we
heard was garbled, but could have been directed towards a
vessel named 'Vigilante'."
    "Sirs, perhaps you should use the showers before they decide
to talk to us." Albert suggested.
    "Thank you Mr Albert, I almost forgot"  Assali said as he
turned toward the head.

    Assali, Meede, and Albert were escorted through the
corridors of the Vigilante.  The three were perfectly groomed in
standard Star Fleet uniforms.  The few others they saw in the
hallways wore the same baggy, black uniform with several large
'cargo' pockets.  Everyone they saw walked crisply and stiff,
all seemed to be overly disciplined and didn't ever give them a
second glance.
    Meede raised an eyebrow at this behavior. His abductors had
just moved up several notches on his personal 'danger scale'.

    They were lead into a good sized room for the ones they had
glimpsed.  It was flat gray like the rest of the ship with a
U-shaped table that had eight chairs at it.  Other chairs were
also placed around the perimeter of the room.  In the center of
the U was a single chair positioned to face all seated at the
table.
    "Its a court room." Assali said after they had stood in it
for a minute.
    "Are we being put a trial?" Albert asked.
    Meede simply scowled.
    Just then the door slid open and Commander Norton walked in
accompanied by a short Kalonian female and a good sized human
male.  The man was almost 2 meters tall, had relatively wide
shouders and long graying black hair thinning on top and pulled
back into a pony tail.
    Meede looked at the man then said "I thought you were dead,"
he hesitated for a moment, and then added "Sir."
    "It's good to see you again too, Mr Meede" the man said.
    Assali turned to the Lieutenant "You know this man?".
    "Yes sir, I served briefly under him aboard the Nielsen
before I was promoted to the Charlemagne."
    "Wasn't the Nielsen part of the armada destroyed at
Wolf-359?" Albert asked.
    "Please Allow me to introduce myself," the man said,
ignoring the question, and offered his had to Assali "I'm
Captain Anthony and I'd like to personally welcome you aboard
the U.S.S. Vigilante," he then indicated the Kalonian with him
"and this is my first officer, Commander Tarva."
    She didn't offer her hand, just slightly nodded toward them.
    "Now, I suppose you have a lot of questions, why don't you
have a seat and we'll see if we can answer any of them." Anthony
indicated the chairs at the table as he and Commander Tarva
headed for them.
    "Sir, if you really are a commissioned Star Fleet ship, why
have you not allowed us to contact the Delphi?" Meede asked
before everybody was fully seated.
    "I thought that would be the first question you'd ask."
Anthony said with a grin.  "As I'm sure Mr Norton has advised
you, the U.S.S. Vigilante is a top secret project.  We are under
strict orders not to reveal ourselves to anybody.  We are to
remain anonymous until such time we have completed the mission
for which we were designed and are training for.  If we were to
simply allow you to call the Delphi that would be in direct
violation of one of our primary mission directives."
    "Its interesting that our sensors didn't directly detect you
as we approached the planet ...", Assali lead.
    "As I've said, we are an experimental ship, I really can't
get into our 'stealth' capabilities."
    The three sat and looked at each other for a minute.
"Captain, aren't you concerned that the Delphi is looking for
us?"  Commander Assali asked somewhat incredulously.
    Tarva fielded this one "We were aware that the remains of
the transport that had crashed would be destroyed after the
survivors were evacuated.  We pulled you off the planet just
before you would have been vaporized by the blast.  Hopefully,
the Delphi will think that you were killed."
    "Hopefully, they'll think we were killed?  You want them to
abandon us?  Then what, you keep us against our will, kill us
yourselves, what?"  Meede had assumed his head of security
authoritative tone.
    Tarva had been a security Chief for too long to be impressed
by Meede's posturing.  After a few months of him, Anthony
had also become use to it.
    Anthony replied "Lieutenant, our intention was to keep you
from harm, if we wanted you dead, we would have ignored you."
    "Which we almost did." Tarva lied.
    Assali had been quietly listening to the exchange and
finally spoke up.  "The way I see it then, you are looking
for some way to exchange us for your missing crew without
revealing yourselves.  Does that sum up the situation? "
    "Most of it." Anthony said.
    "There is a bit more we must accomplish to clean up this
incident properly."  Tarva added.
    "And that is?" Meede asked.
    "We must insure that all computer and other records of the
Delphi's foray into AR-24 are erased or altered to exclude any
and all contact with the Vigilante and her personnel."  Tarva
replied casually.
    Midshipman Albert blurted out "That's impossible...Sir."  he
then turned to Assali "Sir, Captain Malory would never go for
altering the computer records, would he?"
    Tarva looked at Assali "Is the Captain of the Delphi
Percival Malory?"
    Assali scrutinized the recognition in Tarva's face "Yes,
Percival Malory is the Captain of the U.S.S. Delphi, do you know
him?"
    "After Wolf-359, the New Aukland rescued me from an escape
pod.  The Captain was Percival Malory, we actually became quite
good friends." She said this more to Anthony than Commander
Assali.
    Anthony turned to Tarva "Between Commander Assali and
yourself we may be able to convince Captain Malory...."
    "Hold that thought," Assali interrupted "convince Captain
Malory about what, I'm not convinced myself. You're going to
have to tell and show me a lot more than you have so far to get
me to try to convince my Captain to do something that is
strictly against policy."
    "Sir," Meede said to Assali "Are you saying that you may
even be considering asking Captain Malory to forge his logs?"
    "Lieutenant," Anthony said "You must learn to look beyond
the rules and regulations of an individual ship to the security
of the entire Federation."
    Meede scoffed "Are you trying to tell us that this project
is that important?"
    "We are." Tarva answered seriously.
    Assali motioned for Meede to remain silent and thought for a
moment.  "Let's try to compromise some here.  Show me what you
can of this ship.  If you convince me, then I'll do what I can.
At no time, however, will I involve myself in lying to or
attempting to deceive my commanding officer, is that clear."

    A pipping sound came from the intercom.  "Bridge to Captain
Anthony."
    "Go ahead."
    "Sir, We read the Delphi powering up, she's probably
preparing to get under way." came a female voice.
    "Have we obtained our new orbit?" Tarva said to the speaker.
    "Yes, sir."
    "Very good, we'll be right up." Anthony stood followed by
the rest at the table.  "Mr Norton, would you have someone
escort Lieutenant Meede and Mr Albert back to their quarters."
    Norton who had remained standing by the door acknowledged
the command with a slight nod and a "Yes, Sir".
    Anthony toward Assali "Won't you please accompany me to the
Bridge?"
    "Sir, I must protest," Meede interjected "I don't know that
we should allow ourselves to be split up by these people."
    "Mr Meede," Assali turned to the man "If we were not safe,
there's not much we could do about it.  So I suggest we take
them at face value until they give us reason to believe
otherwise.  Is that clear?"
    "Yes, sir"
    "Now, return to our quarters and wait for me."
    With that, the two groups exited the briefing room.

-----------

    Andrea Whitecloud wore a standard yellow Star Fleet
uniform with no rank or insignia.  She sat at one end of a table
in a relatively large conference room.  Sitting at the table
were the remaining command staff of the USS Delphi.  Among them
were of course Captain Malory, Doctor Mayak and the second in
command of security, now chief of security, Lieutenant Anna
Zalvosta.
    "Ms. Smith" the Captain was saying "Let me get this
straight, you claim that you and your crew are the survivors of
a private registry transport?"
    "That's correct."
    "And the name of the transport was The Vigilante"
    "Actually it was the Klingon equivalent, but essentially
yes."
    "Don't you think that VIGILANTE is a rather severe name for
a transport?" Malory was calmly paging through notes on his
terminal, notes totally unrelated to what was going on at
present.
    "Not for the make up of the crew."  Whitecloud leaned
casually to one side with her hands laying loosely in her lap.
    "Now there's something I'd like to talk about." Malory said
as if suddenly finding something interesting. "It is most
intriguing, that you accomplished getting a Kalonian and a
Klingon to work together.  The only time I've ever seen some in
a room together, they were trying to kill each other.
    "It's amazing how much hatred and prejudices can be put
aside if the price is right."  Whitecloud seemed bored with the
whole process.
    "Then your cargo was extremely valuable?"
    "Some would think so."
    "What exactly was your cargo?"
    "An assortment of things."
    Malory seemed to ignore her answers and just continued
with his questions "If it was so valuable, why did you destroy
it."
    "Who said I destroyed it?"
    "Then what was that you were doing with the tri-corder after
you were beamed up?" interjected the new chief of security.
    "I was in the process of activating a homing beacon when we
were transported, I was just trying to finish what I had
started."
    "That was some homing beacon." Lieutenant Zalvosta said
incredulously.
    "The tricorder must have malfunctioned when YOUR man lost
his cool.  The tri-corder also had a destruct function in it,
but that is not what I was activating."
    "Once again you try to blame US for the death of the away
team." Malory was starting to show some slight agitation.
    "I lost more then THREE comrades in that crash, I have to
live with that.  I am not going to accept the blame for the
death of three people who were some place they shouldn't have
been when someone else caused a malfunction.  As far as I'm
concerned, I'm more of a witness than a participant to the
matter."  Whitecloud had straighten out and had both hands palms
down on the table and was staring directly at Malory.
    Before Malory could respond a piping sound came over the
intercom.  "Captain, Bridge here".
    "Go a head Mr Qhasmon."
    "Sir, we are ready to get under way."
    "Stand by.", Malory rose and stood for a moment beside his
chair, gazing at his 'guest'.
    "I am sure that we will speak again, Miss...Smith, before we
reach Star Base 89 at any rate...."
    "Starbase 89?" Whitecloud asked.
    "Yes, the Admiral has shown a specific interest in you and
your crew." Malory clapped his hand atop his chair and abruptly
left the meeting room.

-----------

    "One thing still puzzles me.." Assali said to Anthony as
they entered the turbo-lift to the bridge.
    "What's that?  BRIDGE" Captain Anthony stood in a casual at
ease posture.
    Assali's knees buckled slightly from the extreme
acceleration of the lift.  "I've been trying to figure out why
none of our sensors spotted your ship and why we had such a hard
time zeroing in on your crew."
    "Mr Assali," Anthony said in mock shock.  "Like we've said,
this is a secret project it wouldn't do us any good if any
passing Star Ship could see us, Would it?"  The door to the
turbo lift opened and Assali and Anthony stepped onto the
bridge.
    On the main screen was the image of the Delphi.  The
Vigilante had come up behind and above it.  The angle and the
distance made the single warp drive ship seem extremely small.
    "My God," Assali said "you're cloaked, aren't you?."
    Anthony smiled "Yea, I suppose we are.  Ensign O'Malley
report."
    "Sir, the Delphi has maintained its shields and appears to
be preparing to leave orbit."
    "If they leave orbit, we're going to have a tougher time
fixing this problem."  Anthony stood behind O'Malley looking at
the ship on the screen.
    "What were your plans with my ship?" Assali asked concerned.
    Anthony looked at the Delphi's first officer "It doesn't
matter, Malory seems to be playing it safe."
    "He does seem to have a sixth sense"  Assali agreed with a
smile.  He knew that Malory was anything but safe in his style
of Captaining.
    Tarva walked up behind them from the other lift "That does
seem to be a major requirement for a Star Fleet Captain."
    The Delphi changed its orbit and vectored away from the
planet.  It made an abrupt half turn and changed course for a
little more than an instant. Then it resumed its course and
heading.  Within seconds it was out of sight as it increased to
maximum impulse power.
    "What kind of maneuver was that?" Anthony asked curiously.
    Assali smiled "I call it a 'Crazy Qhasmon'"
    "What's the point?" Anthony was not satisfied.
    Assali merely shrugged his shoulders.
    "You know Andorians ..." he offered.
    A Vulcan seated at the science station along the rear
perimeter of the bridge spoke up "Sir,"
    "Yes, Lieutenant S'Erlet."  The Captain turned his attention
to his young Science Officer.
    "I have been monitoring the Delphi as closely as possible. I
have ... noted ... that it seems to have a very sophisticated
scanner emission pattern.  There seems to be some problems with
it however, as periodically, the scanner bandwith gets flooded
with garbage.  Akin to resonance echoes, Sir.
     "I would think that this may lead to some problems with
their navigational sensors. "
     Tarva didn't quite agree with S'Erlet's opinion, "I doubt
that a Captain would have his ship prepare for warp speed if he
felt that his sensors  were faulty ...."  Tarva kept her other
suspicions silent.
    Assali continued to remain sailent on their speculations.
    "Ensign O'Malley, at current course what is their best
destination?"  Anthony asked.
    "Sir, current course will set them directly to Star Base
89."
    Anthony turned to Assali "Commander, would Star Base 89 be
an appropriate destination for the Delphi at this time?"
    Assali continued to simply stand mute.
    "What would be the average cruising speed of a Pentalia
class ship?"
    "Warp six" Tarva replied.
    "Plot a wide course to Star Base 89 best speed.  We'll just
go and wait for them." Anthony said.
    "Best speed, Sir?" O'Malley confirmed.
    "Best Speed" Tarva confirmed.
    "Aye, Sir." O'Malley worked a few buttons.  "Course plotted
and laid in, Sir"
    "Engage." Anthony stood casually with his hands in his
jacket pockets.
    The helmsman next to O'Malley pushed a few buttons and the
Vigilante vectored out of orbit just like the Delphi except for
the 'Crazy Qhasmon'.  "Full impulse" he reported.
    "We're clear for warp" O'Malley said after a couple minutes.
    "Engage." Tarva said from the Captain's chair.
    The star field on the screen suddenly blurred to the
standard 'rushing stars' optical illusion of warp.  "Best Speed
attained." the helmsman said immediately.
    "Very good, notify me when we arrive at Star Base 89."
Anthony then turned to Assali "Won't you join me in the briefing
room?" and headed toward a door near one of the Turbo Lifts.
Assali turned and followed the Captain off the bridge.

    Anthony had to layout their mission to Assali in some
detail.  He, however, did not tell him of the new technology or
how they planned to get to the Borg in a timely manner.  The
fewest number of details revealed the better, if only he could
totally convince Assali.
    The toughest part was getting Assali to agree to try to
convince Malory on his word alone with out revealing the
Vigilante or its nature.
    Assali still didn't have any idea what the ship looked like.
All windows he'd seen merely looked into empty space and Anthony
was very tight lipped about details of the ship.
    "Captain," Assali said "You have more or less convinced me
of your sincerity and the importance of your mission.  My
question remains, how are you going to contact the Delphi or
alter it's logs after it arrives at Star Base 89?"
    "Actually near a Star Base a Star Ship is likely to have
minimum security especially when it comes to having its shields
lowered for transport."
    "And what do you plan to do when the Delphi lowers its
shields?" Assali was again showing proper concern for his ship.
    Anthony smiled and said "Not the same thing we would have
done if they had dropped their shields at AR-24."
    Assali scowled at the evasion.
    "Okay, here's my plan, since it involves you and will
require your help..."

-----------

    Whitecloud had been assigned a small but nice room.  In
fact, it was a lot nicer than what she had on the Vigilante, but
it wasn't home.  She had been allowed only limited contact with
the rest of her crew, they were being treated equally well.  She
wondered with a flashing grin how close their stories were to
hers.
    Anndrea Whitecloud had lost faith in a Supreme Being since
she was disenchanted on Infiniti West, now she found herself
praying that The Vigilante had picked up the Delphi's landing
party.  With the death of S'Turlek she had lost a total of 13 of
the original 18.  It would be difficult for even a seasoned
commander to deal with, it being her first solo command made it
even more difficult.
    Whitecloud walked to her door which she had to signal to
have the guard open.  A guard stood in the doorway looking at
her "What do you want?" he said.
    "I Was told that you had exercise facilities that could be
made available to me." Whitecloud said as pleasantly as she
could.
    "One moment" he said cursly.  She could see him reach to his
communicator pin as the door slid shut between them.
    A few moments later the door slid open again and the guard
still stood in the same position. "Facilities are currently
available, are you ready at this time?"
    "Yes, that would be fine" she grabbed the bag of exercise
clothes she had been issued and headed out the door.  A pair of
guards fell in behind her.

     Anndrea had been working out on the strength training
equipment for about ten minutes when a couple of young security
officers, not that she had seen an older security officer on the
DELPHI yet, entered the rec room.
    "You're the one, aren't you?" one of them said as they
approached.
    Whitecloud who had been in a reclined position sat up and
pushed hair off of her face.  "I'm sorry were you talking to me,
Ensign?" she said in an authoritative voice.
    "Your the one who killed the away team.  What are you doing
in here?  Shouldn't you be in the brig?" one of them said
harshly.
    "What caused that terrible accident is still under
investigation." Whitecloud said as she stood up.
    "Were the hell do you think your going?" the other said and
pushed Whitecloud hard enough to make her sit back down on the
bench.  "You kill two security officers and the First Officer,
now your in the security training room acting like you own the
place."
    Whitecloud stood up quickly and stared at the speaker then
hissed "Mister, if you touch me again, I will KILL you, is that
understood?"
    The other one grabbed her by the arm and spun her towards
him as he said "How dare you threaten Star Fleet officers".
    Whitecloud grabbed the man's arm, pulled him free of her and
twisted the arm around his back.  The man groaned from the
sudden stretch then screamed as his arm and shoulder broke and
and his arm started to double back on itself.
    As soon as his friend screamed the other man rushed at them.
Whitecloud kicked straight out at him landing square in the
chest doubling him over and throwing him across the room.
    Whitecloud stood behind the man and continued applying
pressure.  As he screamed she whispered icily "Death is easy if
you know how to apply it."
    In response to the man's screams, the guards had come
running into the room.  "What's going on here!" one of them
yelled as they approached.
    Whitecloud let the man go and pushed him to the floor.  "Why
did you let these two in, you know I'm not allowed company."
    One guard held a phaser on Whitecloud while the other knelt
down to examine the security man she had just released.  His arm
was still twisted up behind his back and he lay on his stomach
moaning.  The guard with the phaser touched his communicator pin
and said "Security and medical to Security Training Room one."

-----------

    Anndrea Whitecloud stood in the conference room in a stiff
at ease posture.  Seated at the table were Captain Malory, Chief
of Security Anna Zalvosta, and Doctor Mayak.  Standing to either
side of Whitecloud but against the walls were two large security
men.
    "Ms. Smith," Malory began "we are here to determine the
circumstances around the incident earlier today in the Training
Room.  In your own words what exactly happened there today?"
    "Sir, I was approached at a time when I was led to believe
that I was to remain segregated from the rest of your crew."
Whitecloud began "They accosted me in a rough and threatening
manner.  I told these ENSIGNS to leave me alone, instead they
persisted in confronting me.  Since they were not suppose to be
there, I knew they didn't just 'happen on me'.  They had planned
to confront me and were in collusion with my guards.  It was
obvious that they had plans for me, I was not about to allow
them to follow through."
    "The Ensigns of course, tell a different story." Captain
Malory said "I tend to believe the truth is some where in the
middle."
    "Captain, Sir," Lieutenant Zalvosta said "do you believe
that four Star Fleet officers are lying?"
    The Captain turned to his new Chief of Security "I believe
that both parties' perceptions of events may be slightly
clouded."  Then to Mayak "Doctor, what is the status of the
injured crewman?"
    The doctor looked down at a chart in front of her "The
gentleman with the injured arm should be pretty much healed in a
day or two.  His arm, however, may never be exactly right, but
we'll see.  The other merely had the wind knocked out of him,
he's fine."
    "Thank you, Doctor.  Ms Zalvosta inform all personnel
involved that appropriate disciplinary action will be taken."
Malory then spoke to the whole room "Ms Smith please take a
seat, the rest are dismissed."
    "But Sir..." one of Whitecloud's guards started.
    "But nothing, everyone is dismissed I wish to talk privately
with Ms Smith."
    "Aye, Sir." the other guard said and they headed out of the
room with the rest.
    After Whitecloud had taken a seat across from Malory he said
"Lieutenant Whitecloud, I believe it is time we ended this
charade."
    "I'm sorry, you must have me mistaken for somebody else."
Whitecloud said calmly.
    Malory pushed a few buttons on the console in front of him.
The screen at one end of the room came on with the first page of
Whitecloud's file from Star Base 89.  The visual was poor, as
was standard, but it was obviously Whitecloud. "Are you trying
to deny that this is you."
    Whitecloud thought for a second and said very seriously
"Sir, I'm hoping you will realize that the persons in those
files can't be on this ship."
    "I must know why three of my best officers were killed.  I
have a lot of questions I need answered, before I can accept
that you were never here."
    "Tell me what you have." Whitecloud seemed to be offering to
answer the questions.
    Malory paged through his notes on the terminal for a few
minutes while he considered the options.  Finally he said "The
explosion?"
    "We could not leave top secret equipment to be found by
anybody.  Policy."
    "What really happened?"
    "You stumbled on to a top secrete project just when things
weren't going well"
    Malory continued to page through his notes "Your still being
extremely evasive, Lieutenant."
    "I have my orders."
    "And what do your orders say about answering to Admirals
under direct questioning?"
    "I'm willing to pay the price of keeping my orders."
    Malory frowned at her stubbornness, this wasn't getting any
where.  He knew that she was hiding a lot, but was she sincere
about the secrecy.  If she was telling the truth and Star Fleet
was involved, then he shouldn't be asking her questions.
    "I'll leave the rest of the questions to the Admiral, maybe
you'll be able to talk more freely with him."  Malory said then
turned off his console.
    "I don't think so." Whitecloud said matter of factly.
    "Well, we'll find out very soon."
    The conversation was interrupted by the comm pipping on
"Captain, Bridge here".
    "Go ahead, Mr Penthrach"
    "Sir, preparing to drop out of warp for approach to Star
Base 89."
    "Very good, I'll be there in a few minutes."
    "Bridge out."
    Malory left the room then the two large security men came in
to escort Whitecloud back to her quarters.  As they walked down
the corridor, Anndrea considered her new gaurds.  It was obvious
these two were chosen to guard her because of their size.  They
even wore security vests that would help protect them incase of
a fight.  She was quite flattered by the respect they were
finally showing her.
    She decided to start a polite converstation, she looked up
at one, smiled and said sweetly "Are you, afraid of me?"
    He looked at her with a frown and replied curtly "No."  They
were not suppose to talk to her, and didn't want to.
    The tio had arrived at Whitecloud's quarters.  She stepped
in, then turned to face them, continuing to smile and holding
her hands behind her back in a loose at-ease posture.
    "You should be." she said.
    The door slid shut between them.

-----------

    The Vigilante had taken up a place off of Star Base 89.
They had been hiding in a nearby system until they estimated the
Delphi would arrive.
    The ship's orientation made the Star Base appear to be
laying on it's side.  It was a massive structure, designed to
dock more then ten Star Ships at a time.
    The top half was dome shape, with a long pylon like tale
extending below it.  The structure ended up looking very much
like a mushroom.  Protruding from every surface of the Base
where a multitude of antennas and sensor arrays.  Evenly spaced
around the base of the dome were five large doors to allow
StarShips into Dry dock.
    Being a monitoring station for the neutral zone, Star Base
89 was heavily armed and shielded.  It not only had phaser rings
on the dome but had a multitude of phaser cannons and torpedo
launchers spread over the surface.  The shield generators were
not as visible but were still there.  From shear size alone the
base was able to generate shields capable of with standing a
prolonged attack.
    "Ensign, monitor the scanners closely, we don't need anybody
bumping into us."  Tarva said from the Captain's chair.  Tarva
smiled at her use of words, she was begining to sound like the
Captain.
    "Aye, Sir" replied O'Malley.  She soon spoke again "Sir, the
Delphi is dropping out of warp and approaching standard orbit
around Star Base 89."
    Tarva stood and pressed a button on the Captain's console
"Bridge to Captain Anthony."
    "Go ahead." returned the Captain immediately.
    "Sir, the Delphi has just dropped out of warp and is
approaching Star Base."
    "Acknowledged, I'm on my way."
    Tarva then headed to the turbo-lift.

    Tarva entered Transporter Room II dressed in her yellow Star
Fleet uniform.  Commander Norton, Commander Assali and Chief
Swanson waited for her.  Norton also wore his yellow standard
uniform, just incase.
    Tarva spoke to Norton as she entered "Have you been able to
spot any of our people on the Delphi?"
    "We think we've spotted Valerta and Galleran.  We also feel
that we can transport through their shields.  As they stand,
their at minimum power and we've been able to determine the
pulse frequency.  I think, however, that it wouldn't be prudent
to just pull them out."
    "Agreed, what's the Delphi's Transporter activity been
like?"
    "There's been some activity but there hasn't been any way to
tell if any of our crew but Valerta and Galleran are still on
the ship." Swanson replied.
    Tarva said "I'll go to Star Base and try to contact Captain
Malory from there."
    She then stepped onto the front of the large pad.  As she
stepped up, she noticed the pad had a slightly different tint to
it then the rest.  It was the pad destroyed by the accident that
killed Ensign Shertz.  Tarva was tempted to step to an adjoining
pad, but didn't.  "When ever your ready, Chief."
    "Waiting for an opening, Sir" Swanson said as she watched
her scanner. "Energizing"
    The scene around Tarva shifted and was replaced by a hallway
on Star Base 89.  She immediately started walking as if she was
going somewhere.  It would take her a moment or two to get her
bearings but she didn't want to look out of place.
    Tarva had been to Star Base 89 and knew where she was going.
The Base lounge was quite large to accommodate the high Star
Base traffic.  One feature, was a communication facility for
personnel to make personal calls to other ships.  Normally, even
personal traffic had to be channeled through official channels.
These facilities allowed personnel to keep in touch on a more
unofficial level.
    "Commander Tarva?" The male voice came from behind her as
she approached the doors to the lounge.  When she turned she saw
a medium built human wearing a yellow uniform with Star Base
security insignia.
    "Lieutenant Bloom," Tarva said trying to be casual. "It's
been a long time."
    "Commander, I didn't know you were visiting, I would have
looked you up."  Bloom said with a smile as he approached.  "How
have you been?"
    Lieutenant Ian Bloom had served as second in command of
security under Tarva on the Eclipse.  He had transferred to a
position on Star Base A107 a month before the Borg incident.
    "I didn't know you were stationed here." Tarva said with a
smile when he reached her.
    "I'm Chief of Internal Security." he said proudly.  She knew
that his interests always were in Star Base Security.  "Where
are you stationed now, Sir?"
    "I've been working as a security consultant for new
operations in the sector." Tarva lied.
    "So your just visiting?  Perhaps you'd join me for dinner
this evening, we have so much to catch up on."
    Tarva smiled, she and Lieutenant Bloom had become good
friends.  She really would like to catch up with him. "I'm
Sorry, I can't, I have somebody else I really do need to catch
before one of us leaves."
    "Perhaps I could help." he offered as they approached the
doors to the lounge.
    "Thanks, but that's not necessary, all I have to do is make
a call."
    He smiled, "Of course, your here to use the comm center.
Okay, I'll let you go."
    "Perhaps we can schedule dinner before I leave, I'll contact
you."
    "Very good," he said "Till then.." he bowed slightly then
turned crisply and walked back down the hall.
    Tarva walked through the nearly empty lounge.  Because of
the few patrons she could catch snippets of conversation.  Once
again her K.D.F. back ground showed it self.  She caught her
self trying to listen to them as she passed.  You never know
what you could pick up.
    One conversation caught her attention but she didn't allow
herself to even slow down as she passed.
    "..I still can't believe the away team was killed, it
happened so quick, no warning."
    "And your saying that the Captain is cajoling the person who
caused it?"
    "You wouldn't believe..."
    Tarva entered one of the comm booths on the far side of the
lounge.  She placed her palm on the ID pad, hoping Anthony was
right about how she was officially listed.  A small screen lit
up showing her ID information.

              NAME    : Sashon Tarva
              RANK    : Commander
              POSITION: Security Specialist --
                        Star Fleet Security Consultant Corps.
              NOTES   : Currently on Assignment along Romulan
                        Neutral Zone assessing possible security
                        Lapses.

    Most of the Vigilante's crew where listed as deceased.  The
top brass of Project Fulton, however, knew that the Vig may have
need of making some kind of contact with regular Star Fleet.
Some selected officers on the Vigilante were assigned to the
S.F.S.C.C. which was, in fact, just a cover for Project Fulton
personnel.
    She then entered her request for a patch to the Delphi.
Since it was a public channel there was a slight wait before the
hail was answered.
    The chubby face of a rather over weight man appeared on the
monitor.  "This is the Delphi, Lieutenant Penthrach, can I help
you?"
    "Yes, I'd like to speak with Captain Malory."
    The man glanced at his screen obviously checking her
personal information provided with the transmission.  "I'm
sorry, Commander Tarva, the Captain is not available at this
time.  Can I take a message or arrange a call back?"
    "Yes, tell the Captain I'd like to speak with him as soon as
he is available."  Tarva then placed her communicator pin in a
matching indentation on her console.  "Entering communicator
frequency now."
    "Very good, Commander, I'll pass your message to the Captain
as soon as he is available."
    "Thank you, Tarva out."
    The screen blinked off, Tarva stood and headed to a table in
the lounge.  She was trying to place her pin on properly when a
shadow covered her.  Thinking it was the waiter she looked up to
order.
    "Commander Tarva?" said a blond haired human female standing
over her.  She wore the red uniform of Star Fleet command and
commander pips on her collar.
                              to be continued........


--------------



                   T H E   V I G I L A N T E

                              IIIC

                         "The Warriors"
                          (continued)


....
You who find us in this place,
Have pity in your breast;
Let us in our last embrace,
Under earth sun-hallowed rest.
Night's a claw upon my brain:
Oh, to see the sun again!
              "SUNSHINE"
           Robert W. Service



    Tarva stood out of courtesy to a fellow Star Fleet Commander
"Yes, do I know you?"
    The woman offered her hand and said "My name is Commander
Shelby".
    Tarva ignored the gesture and said "Won't you have a seat."
and motioned toward an extra chair at her table.  This was not a
good sign, but Tarva figured Commander Shelby may have merely
recognized her.  There weren't that many Kalonians in Star
Fleet.
    When they were both seated Tarva asked "How may I help you?"
    The woman looked at Tarva seriously "Let me get right to
business, I'm what I guess I would call, the local liaison for
the S.F.S.C.C."
    Tarva was not expecting this, she knew that the S.F.S.C.C.
was just a front developed by Project Fulton.  Commander Shelby
admitting she was in the 'Corps' was telling her that she must
know about the Vigilante.
    Tarva didn't say anything she just looked at Shelby as if
waiting for her to finish a sentence.
    So she continued "I was alerted to your presence by the
computer when you accessed the comm station.  I must admit that
I was not expecting any of the 'Corps' to be stopping by here so
soon."
    "Why wouldn't you be expecting me, Commander, Star Base 89
was on my schedule."  Tarva replied pleasantly.
    "Of course, this isn't the proper place for us to discuss
this matter." Shelby said and stood up "Shall we."
    Tarva followed Shelby out of the lounge.  She turned to
Tarva "So, how long have you been on Star Base 89?"
    "For a while." Tarva replied.
    They walked swiftly through the corridors not speaking.
They turned into a small room in a security section.  The room
was bare except for a table and several chairs, when the door
closed, it seemed to seal itself.  There wasn't even the
obligatory computer console or other computer based accessories.
Shelby took one of the seats and Tarva sat in another.
    "So, how can I help you, Commander?" Tarva said.
    "Commander, what in the world are you doing here?  Project
Fulton issued explicit orders for you not to make contact.  Is
your ship in the area?"
    "I do not know who you are, or what connection you have with
Project Fulton.  If you are involved, you know that I can't
discuss any details with you.  So why have you even contacted
me?"
    "I've chosen to contact you because you've boarded Star Base
89 without authorization and you are in direct violation of
Fulton directives.  I'm trying to determine why you have done
this and if we should be concerned about your progress." Shelby
seemed to be getting slightly anxious.
    Tarva decided that this human knew enough about the project
to confide in.  "During a training session, we experienced a
failure in one of our personnel delivery systems.  This failure
caused the loss of quite a few of the team involved.  The
remainder of the team was picked up by Captain Malory and the
U.S.S. Delphi before we had a chance to retrieve them ourselves.
At the same time we found it prudent to remove a Delphi landing
party from the site before some wreckage self destructed."
    Shelby put the pieces together "So your ship and the Delphi
have effectively exchanged crew members, is that correct?"
    "Yes."
    "Now your here to contact Captain Malory to try to effect
some sort of exchange."
    "Essentially."
    Shelby sat back in her chair and looked at Tarva "Is there
anyway I can help?"
    "Does this Admiral Hrgon know about project Fulton?" Tarva
asked.
    "Not officially." Shelby said as if it was a running
problem.
    "What does that mean?"
    "The Admiral is, shall we say, extremely nosy, he has to
know everything that is going on in his quadrant.  He won't
acknowledge the fact that there may be some Star Fleet projects
that he shouldn't know about."
    Tarva thought for a second then asked "And how much do you
know of the project, just were are you placed?"
    "You may have already guessed that I can't really answer
that question but I can tell you what I don't know.  I don't
know your ship's name or how its going to do what its suppose
to.  I don't know the Captain, it could be you. I do know some
of the basic tech theories proposed for use in Project Fulton
but I don't know their standing.  I guess my job is that of
liaison, any time S.F.S.C.C. comes through the computer, I jump.
Other then that, I have regular duties here.  In fact, this is
the first time I've actually been needed in this capacity."
    "I think you may be able to help us, Commander." Tarva said
"If we are going to convince Captain Malory to go along with us
we may need your input."
    "That's why I'm here."
    Tarva's comm pin began to chime, she immediately touched it
and said "This is Commander Tarva"
    "Commander," came a familiar voice "Malory here."
    Tarva smiled at the sound of his voice "Captain, I need to
talk to you, it's quite important"
    "I can arrange for you to beam over, if you want."
    "That would be best." Tarva replied.
    "Very good, I'll release authorization."
    "Acknowledged, Tarva out."
    Tarva turned to Shelby "Where's the nearest transporter
room?"
    "I'll take you."
    The two commanders walked out of the secure room and headed
down the hall.

-----------

    Tarva watched Commander Shelby, the Transporter Chief and
the Star Base transporter room begin to sparkle, soon everything
was sparkling.  The sparkling began to reform in the shape of a
new transporter room.  At the controls was a Yellow shirtted
operator and next him was a young man in a red command uniform.
    As soon as she could move again, Tarva came stiffly to
attention and said "Captain, permission to come aboard, Sir?"
    "Permission granted," Captain Malory said "Welcome aboard
the Delphi."
    "Thank you, Sir."
    "So, Commander Tarva," Malory said with a smile "how have
you been?"  The standard offer of a handshake was absent.
    "I've been fine." She replied formally "Sir, I do need to
talk with you."
    "Yes, of course." Malory said then motioned to the door.
"Won't you come with me."  They walked into the hall and headed
to the turbo lift.  "So, Commander, your doing security
consulting now, must be very interesting."
    "Yes, Sir, I get to do a lot of traveling, it keeps me quite
busy."  They rode the lift only a few decks before stepping onto
the bridge.
    Tarva quickly surveyed the bridge.  It was definitely a
standard Pentalia layout but obviously brand new.  A few things
looked slightly familiar.  They were the extra panels tacked on
to the ops station and science station.  Very similar in look to
what was tacked on the Vigilante's helm and navigation stations.
    "Mr Qhasmon," Malory said to the blue skinned Andorian
sitting in the Captain's chair "Please make sure that I have
minimum interruptions while I talk to Commander Tarva"
    "Aye, Sir." he replied immediately.
    Tarva followed Malory into his ready room and as the door
slid shut she heard someone say "Two Kalonian's in less then a
week, that's one for the record book."
    As soon as the door closed Malory turned around and embraced
Tarva.  "Sashon, what are you doing here?" He asked after their
short hug.
    "Percival, I've got a problem and I need your help."
    "You know I'd do anything I can for you."  Malory said as he
leaned against his desk with hands to his side.  "What do you
need, passage somewhere, someplace to stay, what?"
    Tarva frowned slightly and took a step toward him "It's not
that easy."
    "Well, lets hear it then." Malory was starting to get
interested, he had never known Sashon to be evasive.
    Tarva looked around the room then said "Is this room totally
secured?"
    Malory looked puzzled and troubled at the same time then
said "Computer"
    "WORKING" came the generic female voice.
    "Initiate, Alpha security"
    "ALPHA SECURITY INITIATED" Replied the voice.
    Tarva looked back at the door control panel.  The small
green light on it had changed to red.  The red light was the
only out ward sign of a security code implementation.
    "Satisfied?" Malory had walked behind his desk and motioned
for Tarva to have a seat.  After she sat down, so did he.  "Now
what's with all of the secrecy?"
    Tarva sat back comfortably, crossed her legs at the knees
and said "I'm here to get my crew back."
    "And what crew is that?" Malory asked sounding genuinely
confused.
    Tarva smiled "I believe you picked them up in AR-24.  I'm
here to retrieve them."
    "So she wasn't lying when she said Star Fleet was involved."
Malory mused to himself.
    "Who is that, Captain?"
    Malory sat for a minute then said "I should have known that
you were involved, Whitecloud is too damned cold to be
associated with anybody else."
    "I hope the Lieutenant hasn't caused you any trouble, I must
warn you that some would refer to her as, I believe the proper
phrase is 'a Loose Cannon'." Tarva paused then added "Lieutenant
Whitecloud is a very good warrior, she was one of my star pupils
when I was training Special Forces."
     Malory smiled, "Thanks for the warning, but it's a bit
late.  Don't worry though, no one was injured too severely.."
    "I do apologize for any incident that may have occurred.
Most of our crew is a bit 'on the edge'.  We've learned how to
deal with them, but they can be a handful if your not prepared."
    "So I found out." Malory agreed.
    Tarva had to turn the conversation back on track "Now if you
could tell me who else is alive and where they are."
    "Now wait a minute, Sashon, three of my officers were killed
in AR-24.  I can't just turn them over to you without finishing
the investigation."  Something was going on here and Malory
wasn't about to just drop everything blindly, even if the
security of the Federation was involved.  He had a duty to his
ship and his crew to find out what.  Besides, if this was for
real, Admiral Hrgon would know about it, wouldn't he?
    "What I was hoping for is not going to be that easy,
Captain." Tarva said "But that brings me to the other topic I
wanted to discuss."
    "And what might that be?"
    "Your landing party was not killed at AR-24."
    "What?"
    "We were able to retrieve them just before the explosion."
    "If my people are still alive, where are they?"
    "They are quite safe, you can trust me on that.  Right now,
they're just waiting for me to arrange a proper exchange."
    "Well, that's going to be difficult.  Lieutenant Whitecloud
has already been transferred to the Star Base for interrogation.
I was delivering her when you called."  Malory seemed quite
aware of the irony.
    Tarva considered for a second then said "Can you get her
back?"
    Malory laughed "Get her back? I couldn't even keep her
myself!  As required, I had to inform the Admiral of the deaths
of my three crewmen.  As such, the Admiral wanted all of the
details... After I informed him of the party that I beamed up,
he almost went berserk.  He wants to interrogate all of them
personally, I would have liked to have asked my own questions...
I have to deliver the other four survivors within a couple of
hours ..."
    "I thought there were six survivors?" Tarva said concerned.
    "Oh yes, the Vulcan S'Turlek, did not survive his injuries."
    Tarva was quiet for a few moments "Let me lay this on the
table.  We have to get this taken care of.  Not only do we want
to get both crews back to were they're suppose to be, but we
also need to adjust ship's logs to erase all data collected."
    "Now wait a minute, your asking me to forge my logs on your
word?"  Malory was quite serious "I'm sorry, Sashon, but I can't
do that, on what little you've given me."
    Tarva said  "We knew that this would be your response so
we've arranged to give you more then my word."  She then stood
and pulled out a large old style communicator from under the
back of her uniform.  She flipped it open and said "Have you
made arrangements with Commander Shelby?"
    Malory shuddered, if Commander Shelby is involved in this,
it must have something to do with the Borg.  If that's true,
it's no wonder they have such tight security.
    Tarva listened to the response on the communicator then said
to Malory "Can you at least promise not to make any new logs
concerning this incident and especially this conversation until
I've had further opportunity to convince you?"
    Now Malory didn't need to consider for a second "I will not
make any new logs or investigate this incident further until
you've had that chance."
    Tarva smiled "Now would be as good a time as any to get
started."
    Captain Malory stood, ready for the intrigue.  "Where do we
go?"
    "Let's start by going back to Star Base 89."
    "Okay, but first, I have to talk with my officers, won't you
wait on the bridge for a second.  Computer, cancel alpha
security."
    "ALPHA SECURITY CANCELED."
    The red light on the control pad changed back to green and
Tarva headed out.  She could hear Malory asking some of his
officers to come in.
    The communications officer and a young female officer were
already headed to the ready room as she stepped onto the bridge.

    "Mr Penthrach, has there been any unauthorized
communications to or from the Delphi, say in the past ten
minutes?" Malory asked as soon as the door was closed.
    The Lieutenant stiffened his large frame "No sir, our
systems would alert us to any unauthorized transmission."
    Malory then turned to the female "Ensign, has there been any
unusual ORACLE anomalies since we dropped out of warp?"
    The Ensign also came to stiff attention "No Sir, We've been
doing the standard calibrations since arrival.  We have not had
any unaccounted for readings."  The standard ORACLE testing
procedures included testing it's output against the known
readings from other ships and structures in the area.
    "Is there a problem, Sir?" Penthrach asked.
    "No Lieutenant, dismissed."
    With that all three stepped onto the bridge.

    Tarva and Malory appeared in a small transporter room on
Star Base 89.  The room was empty except for the operator, a
blond haired human female wearing a red command uniform.
    "Commander Shelby, how nice to see you again."  Malory said
to the attractive officer as soon as he was released from the
effects of the transporter.
    Shelby was all business "Sir, won't you come with me
please?"  She immediately turned and exited the room before they
had a chance to even step down from the transporter.
    Tarva and Malory followed Commander Shelby, none of them
said a word.  They were soon in the security section standing
outside the secure room Tarva and Shelby had met in earlier.
The door opened indicating it was unoccupied.  Shelby pressed a
button on the control pad closing it in front of them.  Tarva
and Shelby watched down the corridor until it was empty.  Shelby
then nodded to Tarva.
    Tarva pulled out her communicator and said into it "All is
clear, you may proceed when ready."  the communicator was
quickly returned to it's place under her tunic.
    A light blinked on the control pad indicating the door was
being operated from inside.  It then slid open revealing
Malory's First Officer.
    "Captain, it's good to see you again." Assali said with a
wide smile.

    The four sat around the table in the sealed room.  Tarva,
Shelby and Assali had been laying out the details of what needed
to be done.  With Assali convinced it hadn't taken much to swing
Malory.  There came a time that every Captain had to implicitly
trust his officers especially the First Officer this was
certainly one of them.
    "I still can't believe that Admiral Hrgon is out side the
loop on this." Malory said.
    "We couldn't include everybody." Shelby replied "That would
defeat the purpose.  The more people who know, the greater the
chance of a leak either accidental or intentional we just can't
afford one.  Besides, though Admiral Hrgon's loyalty to Star
Fleet is indisputable, he does have his own agenda.  We don't
need anybody side tracking Project Fulton to affect their own
power base."
    "I suppose your right, but it still disturbs me to be going
around a commanding officer's back."  Malory thought for a
second then said "How about Commodore Albrit?"
    Shelby frowned, "He's dead, we're still not sure what
happened to him.  No disrespect intended, but I wouldn't have
had anything to do with this project if he'd been involved."
    Malory frowned and nodded as well, "I hadn't heard that ...
but you've won me over... Now, how are we going to accomplish
this task?"

    After further discussion they had come up with plans to get
The Vigilante's crew back to her and they had a plan for
explaining the reappearance of the Delphi's officers.  The
biggest problem would be getting Whitecloud away from Admiral
Hrgon without him going ballistic looking for her.  That was the
tough part, he had her under tight guard and would be ready for
the others very soon.
    After they stood to leave Assali pulled out an over sized
communicator, like Tarva carried.  He watched the others leave
as he signaled the Vigilante.  As soon as the door shut behind
them the walls shifted and became the Vigilante's transporter
room.

    Malory spoke to Commander Shelby as they walked back toward
the transporter room.  "Tarva and I will begin preparations as
soon as we get back to the Delphi."
    "Very good, I'll begin preparations on this end.  I hope all
works out, we need to get this over with as soon as possible."
Shelby had just finished speaking when they turned a corner and
came face to face with Admiral Hrgon and Lieutenant Bloom.


    "Ah, Captain Malory, just the human I've been looking for."
said the Admiral.  He was relatively short, a Tellerite, quite
hairy with a large nose, more like a snout.
    Malory, Shelby and Tarva immediately came to a natural
attention.  "Sir," Malory said "How can I help you?"
    Hrgon ignored Malory for the moment and turned to
acknowledge the others "Commander Shelby, and this must be
Commander Tarva."
    "Sir" they both said.
    "Commander Tarva, your with the S F S C C?" Hrgon pronounced
each of the letters as if it were a word.
    "Yes, Sir." She replied.
    "Very good, I'll be wanting to discuss something with you,
if you could contact my aid to set up a time."
    "Sir, I may not be in the area much longer." Tarva said
trying to avoid the meeting.
    "Well, we'll just have to make it soon.  By the way,
Lieutenant Bloom informs me he could not find a record of your
billet assignment or even of your arrival itinerary."
    "Sir," Tarva said not wanting to appear defensive "part of
my job is to identify security lapses at Star Fleet
installations.  Though I'm not here on official business it's
become kind of standard for us to travel under low profile.
Since I'd just arrived, when I encountered Lieutenant Bloom, I
had not yet secured quarters.  Now Captain Malory has offered
the hospitality of the Delphi so I'll be billeting there."
    "And what of Lieutenant Whitecloud?" Malory asked.
    Hrgon looked at the two female security specialists flanking
the Captain then said "We were unable to get any new information
from her.  She has been extremely well trained, I wish my whole
security staff were trained as professionally."  The last remark
made Bloom shift uneasily.
    "Also, Captain" Hrgon continued "I'm going to want to
discuss this matter with you more in depth some time soon, as
well as your new orders, now that Albrit is dead.  Perhaps you
should accompany the rest of Whitecloud's crew when
you transport them over."
    "Yes, perhaps that would be the best time." Malory agreed,
somewhat surprised by Hrgon's callousness.
    "Very good." Hrgon was about to walk away when he turned to
Shelby.  "Commander, are you available in about half an hour?
I've got some problems related to Captain Malory's guests I'd
like your opinion on."
    "Yes, Sir." Shelby said instinctively.
    "That will be all, dismissed." Hrgon and Bloom continued
down the corridor.
    "Do you think he just happened to bump into us?" Tarva said
more insinuating than asking.
    Nobody bothered answering her, they were at the transporter
room.

-----------

    Tarva stood in her room on the Delphi looking out at Star
Base 89.  She had to take her room for appearances sake but they
had work to do.  She had her communicator in hand but she had
paused to look at the majesty of the station.
    Tarva flipped open the devise, held it up to the side of her
face and said one word "Energize".
    There was a slight pause waiting for an opening then the
wall and window in front of her shifted and became Transporter
Room II on the Vigilante.  Captain Anthony stood next to Chief
Swanson at the controls, with him were Commanders Assali and
Norton.  "Report" he said simply.
    "Sir, as Commander Assali has probably reported we have a
plan to return all crew to their proper assignments.  There will
be a slight delay retrieving Lieutenant Whitecloud, she has
already been transferred to Star Base 89."  Tarva remained
standing on the transporter.  "The only other problem will be
telling exactly when our team is being transported."
    "Does the Delphi have any Klingon or Kalonian crew?"
Anthony asked.  He had approached her and stood a step below her
so he could talk to her more face to face.
    Tarva knew where he was leading "No sir, the Klingon and the
Kalonian our scans show are both survivors of the drop ship."
    "And there are five of our people still on the Delphi?"
    "No Sir, one of the original crew died after arriving on the
Delphi.  He was the Vulcan S'Turlek."  Tarva had not moved from
her spot.
    "So as long as they transport all of our crew at the same
time, by themselves, we should be able to get them back."
Anthony headed back to his place by the control panel.
    "Sir, Captain Malory has assured us he would arrange to make
it so." Assali said.
    "Very good," Anthony turned back to Tarva "Commander, you'd
better get back to the Delphi."
    "Aye, Sir."
    The wall and window shifted back.

-----------


    "Sir, Holding Area R-8 reports they are prepared to receive
our guests."  reported the Yeoman standing at the control panel.
    "Very well, have them brought in."  Malory and Tarva stood
to one side of the operator.  They would beam over after
transporting the four.
    The door to the transporter room opened to allow in the new
arrivals.  First in was the Klingon female flanked by two
security guards.  The rest followed, each accompanied by two
security guards with drawn weapons.  One of the guards carried a
metal satchel that contained all of the equipment and clothing
the survivors had with them when they came aboard.  The last in
was the Chief of security, her and the guard carrying the bag
were the only ones without drawn phasers.
    The four walked straight to the transporter and took their
positions.  None of them said a word or acknowledged Tarva's
presence, but they did notice her.  The bag was placed on its
own pad then the security stood back from the pad, as was
custom.  They, however, did keep their weapons drawn.
    Malory turned to the operator "Raise force field".
    "Force field activated." he said after pushing a few
buttons.
    The security immediately holstered their weapons.
"Dismissed." Lieutenant Zalvasta said.  The eight immediately
filed out of the room.
    Malory, Tarva, Zalvosta and the operator were the only ones
to remain.
    "Where is Smith," The Klingon demanded.
    "What have you done with her?" said one of the humans.
    Malory smiled, they were good, defiant to the end.  "Don't
worry, you should be seeing her very soon."  he then turned to
the operator "Energize."
    A few buttons were pushed, then he slid his fingers up the
control panels applying power.  The four started the normal
sparkling then the operator said "Sir, I'm reading some sort of
power surge.  Delphi to R-8, do you have a lock?"
    They had started fading in and out "Delphi, this is R-8 we
can't get a secure lock, increasing power."
    The operator responded "Try to reverse, we don't want to
lose them."
    "Acknowledged." the four continued to sparkle and fade.
    "What's going on?" Malory demanded.
    "Sir, something's wrong, we've lost the fix, trying to
regain now."  The operator was desperately pushing buttons.  A
red light on the console began to blink accompanied by a beeping
sound.
    "Delphi, do you have them?" came a worried voice over the
speaker.
    "I think I've got the lock..." the whole transporter flashed
from an explosion.  The force field absorbed most of the
explosion but failed from loss of energy.  The control panel
mostly protected the operator but Zalvosta, Malory and Tarva
were fully exposed.  All three were thrown back against the bulk
head.
    Red emergency lights came on to a loud fire claxon.  The
operator stood up from his instinctive ducking position and
started calling for medical and emergency teams.  He then turned
to attend his Captain.
    "Delphi, what happened over there, we've totally lost them.
Do you have them?  Delphi, please come in...."

-----------

    Tarva limped into Malory's quarters after signaling.  A
fresh scar ran down the far right of her face from just below
her ear wrapping around toward front of her neck and
disappearing under her collar near the rank pips.  Her left arm
hung in a low sling.
    Malory sat at a work station table in the middle section of
his suite.  A large regeneration patch was affixed to the right
side of his face.
    As she approached, he looked up at her.  She could see the
fury in his eyes.  "Computer!"
    "WORKING"
    "Initiate Alpha Security."  he said loudly.
    "ALPHA SECURITY INITIATED."
    Malory stood up to face Tarva she could see his upper torso
was held stiff by a temporary brace.
    "What the HELL did you people do to My transporter?!" He was
losing his attempts to control the anger.  "We could've all been
killed!"
    "Sir," Tarva said trying not to react to his emotions "the
transporters on the Vigilante are a radical new design.  It was
impossible to predict how the Delphi's transporters would
respond to the forced signal."
    "Nothing's impossible to predict when it comes to this kind
of technology.  If your people didn't know or suspect then they
are extremely incompetent."
    "Percival," Tarva said softly trying to calm him "if they
did know, I was not informed.  You must remember though, we are
still in training, that includes learning all of the
idiosyncrasies of the technology.  Nobody on board was involved
in any of the development, they just handed it over to us and
said 'good bye'."
    "My transporter room was destroyed and four people were
almost killed, I hope it's worth it."  He had softened some.
    "I hope so too."
    "Did they get a hold of your people okay?"
    Tarva smiled slightly "Yes, Sir, they arrived with no
adverse effects."
    "Very good, at least some thing went right."  Malory had sat
back down.  "Now Admiral Hrgon is screaming for me.  I've been
able to put off going to see him because of the injuries but
that's already wearing thin."
    "This could be my chance to go, he did want to talk to me
too." Tarva suggested  "We have to start enacting the plans to
get Lieutenant Whitecloud back to the Vigilante."
    Malory cringed at the reminder that he was still going to be
involved in these covert operations.  If Hrgon pieced it all
together, it could ruin his career.  "Very well, I'll make
arrangements.  Dismissed."
    As Tarva headed back to the door Malory was saying
"Computer, cancel Alpha Security."
    "ALPHA SECURITY CANCELED"
    The little green light on the panel came on just as Tarva
reached the door.

-----------

    Lieutenant Bloom met Malory and Tarva in the transporter
room.  "Sir, I'm surprised your willing to use the transporter
so soon after the accident."  He said to them as they started
down the hall.
    "The transporter that exploded, is no longer functioning."
Malory said as if talking to a child.
    "Has there been any progress in determining the reason for
the accident?" Bloom persisted.
    "No, the explosion left very few clues." Tarva replied.
    As they progressed through the corridors they could see an
increase in security, including check stations and ID checks.
Finally, they reached an interrogation area and met Admiral
Hrgon.
    "Ahh, Captain Malory and Commander Tarva I'm glad your back
on your feet after the accident."  Though he was trying to sound
pleasant, his irritation was quite evident.  He then headed into
one of the rooms saying "Come with me."
    A window on the far walled looked into one of the rooms.
Sitting casually at a table was Lieutenant Whitecloud.  "This is
Lieutenant Anndrea Whitecloud." Hrgon said to Tarva.
    "Sir," Tarva interrupted "is that a one way window or a view
screen?"
    "It's just a standard observation window." Lieutenant Bloom
said trying to get in on the conversation.
    "I'm sorry, Sir." Tarva said "You were saying her name is
Whitecloud."
    Hrgon looked slightly irritated but continued "At least
that's what our records tell us.  They also tell us, however,
that Lieutenant Whitecloud was killed in a transporter accident
almost a year ago.  In fact, Commander, all four of the victims
of your transporter accident are all listed as having died
around a year ago."
    Hrgon turned back to Malory and Tarva "Don't you think it
quite odd that all of her living but dead comrades were killed a
second time in a transporter accident?  As a security
specialist, Commander, how do you interpret this situation?"
    "Sir," Malory interjected "Whitecloud claims to be part of a
top secrete Star Fleet mission.  If this is true, the
inconsistencies with her story tend to add up."
    "All except two," Hrgon said "Have you read her file?  She
has been rec-og-nized for bravery, and was top of her class"
Hrgon sniffed.
    "She also has a record like your Lt. Qhasmon.  She has been
busted two times for insubordination.  She was put on hold for
fighting with shipmates, and her last Captain had to get her out
of jail for destroying a bar in a fist fight on Intalla 4.  All
her comrades had similar records.  This isn't the type of person
for a Star Fleet top secret project..."
    During Hrgon's speech, Tarva figured that he just didn't
know how to handle a good warrior.
    Hrgon continued "Finally, I am not aware of any top secret
missions in this quadrant.  Star Fleet would not be running
training missions in this quadrant without alerting me."
    "Sir," Tarva said "What if she is telling the truth?"
    "That's just not possible."
    "Sir, you must have an open mind when it comes to matters
like these.  Shouldn't you at least consider the consequences of
pursuing what may be a classified project.  There may be a very
good reason for such tight security."  Tarva was trying to act
like she was piecing her argument together as she went.
    Hrgon seemed to take extreme offense to the argument.
"Commander, I'm a Rear Admiral in Star Fleet.  I am responsible
for the security of this entire quadrant my integrity is beyond
reproach."
    Tarva was extremely uncomfortable with anybody believing
themselves so invincible.  "Sir, I'm one of the few survivors of
Wolf-359.  I've lived through what can happen when an enemy gets
inside the head of someone who's loyalty and integrity are
beyond reproach.  If we don't start keeping that in mind as we
form our own power bases, the Federation may not be so lucky
next time."
    "Commander, do you know more about this then you are letting
on?" Hrgon suddenly sounded extremely suspicious.  "Tell me,
just exactly which ship did you come in on."
    Whitecloud began fidgeting around under the table.  Soon she
ducked down so nobody could see her.
    "Sir, I resent the implication your making." Tarva said
"Could it be, that I've struck a cord you don't want to hear?"
    Lieutenant Bloom was looking into the room "Sir, where did
she go?"
    "I think she went under the table." Malory responded.
    "What the hell is she doing?" Bloom asked and approached the
window to get a better look.
    Whitecloud stood up from under the table and looked directly
at the window.  She then calmly lifted her right hand as if
pointing at them.
    "Look out, she's got a phaser!" Bloom yelled and dived
toward the Admiral knocking him to the deck.  Malory and Tarva
hit the floor to the whine of the phaser and exploding glass.
    Lieutenant Bloom was the first one up, hitting his comm pin
and calling for security as Whitecloud jumped through the
window.  He was grabbing for his phaser as she approach then
hesitated when she seemed to be turning away.  He never realized
that she was setting up for the round house kick that dropped
him to the floor, unconscious.
    Whitecloud then grabbed Tarva from behind holding her close
across the abdomen with the phaser between them.  It was clear
to all that she had the phaser set to maximum power.
    "Everybody get up." Whitecloud said to Malory and Hrgon.
    "If you were really Star Fleet," Malory said "you wouldn't
be doing this."
    "Lieutenant, you'll never get away from here," Hrgon added
"you've just sealed your fate."
    "You make any kind of move on me," Whitecloud said calmly
but with wild eyes "I'll take the Kalonian with me.  Do you
really want to risk that?"
    "Lieutenant," Tarva said "be reasonable you don't want to do
this." sweat had begun to form on her face.
    "Quiet!" Whitecloud demanded and nudged the phaser some
"Quiet all of you!"
    The door to the room flew open and three security guards
jumped through phasers in hand.  The first two fired point blank
at both Tarva and Whitecloud.  At the same time Malory jumped at
Whitecloud hoping to knock the phaser loose.  He heard the tell
tale sound of a phaser set on full power being fired when the
shots from the security phasers struck him.  Just as he would
have hit them, Whitecloud and Tarva were enveloped by a red glow
and disappeared.  Leaving Malory to roll to the floor
unconscious.

-----------

    Captain Percival Malory lay in his own bunk aboard the
Delphi, his head still throbbed after almost a full day.  The
phaser blasts on top of his previous injuries had made him
extremely weak.  He still wasn't sure what had happened, he
hadn't heard from the Vigilante and it didn't go down the way
he'd been told it would.
    He wasn't sure if he'd drifted off or what but he was
suddenly aware of a presence next to his bed.  He turned to
look, it was his old friend Sashon.  She wasn't dressed in her
standard mustard yellow uniform but in a baggy black one.
    She leaned over to look at him, her long braid fell to one
side.  "How are you she whispered?"
    "Fine, just very weak, Dr Mayak tells me I should be good as
new pretty soon." he smiled and sat up slightly leaning on his
elbows. "When am I going to get my officers back?"
    "They'll be along very soon." Tarva said quietly "Just
remember your one last promise."
    "Don't worry, I'm in too deep to back out now." then asked
"What about the logs we down loaded to Star Base 89?"
    "We have to trust that Commander Shelby can take care of
those files."  Tarva said carefully.  She could see the strain
in his face. "I've got to go."
    "Make sure you come back, I don't want this all to end up
being just a waste of time." he had eased himself back down
flat.
    "I'll do my best, I promise."  She leaned over and kissed
him lightly then stood up straight.  He watched her flip open
her large communicator and say something into it.  "Good bye my
friend." she said to him then was gone.
    "Good bye.." he said, then surrendered to the exhaustion.

-----------

    The following day, Tarva went down to one of the cargo bays
to see the final loose end tied up.  In the bay sat one of their
few standard transports.  This one had been given private
markings and I.D. codes.  The ship was too big for the bay and
sat at an angle to fit.
    Commander Assali and crew stood dressed in their
environmental suits outside the ship waiting for the pilot.
They had purposely damaged the suits and covered themselves with
dirt.
    One of the few human drop ship pilots had planned to pilot
the transport but Norton and Kartang had decided otherwise.
They didn't need another 'loose canon' on the Delphi even if it
was just for an hour or two.
    "So who's going to pilot it?" Assali was asking Shuttle Bay
Chief, Taragoma.
    "I'm not sure" he said "but he should be here anytime now."
    As if in response to his prediction a door to the bay opened
to allow in a person dressed in non-issue clothing.  The clothes
looked like a conglomeration of Klingon and Romulan uniforms
with some other odd equipment thrown in for good measure.  An
old style Romulan disrupter hung comfortably at her side.
    Taragoma didn't recognize her at first until he noticed her
bright red hair which had been slicked down flat.  He smiled and
said "You'd better wear your seat belts."
    Assali recognized her too "Isn't that Ensign O'Malley, the
navigator?"
    Tarva had joined them "Yes, Commander, it is."
    They watched her begin the preflight check with one of the
technicians.  "Don't you have somebody other then the ships
navigator for this mission?" Assali asked.
    "Most of our Drop Ship pilots are not human," Tarva said "we
felt that after the trouble we've caused, a non human pilot
would actually invite closer scrutiny.  The few pilots that are
human, however, have had, shall we say, a falling out with Star
Fleet of one sort or another.  It's been decided that Ensign
O'Malley would be the best pilot to deal with Star Fleet at this
time."
    O'Malley approached the group and stood at attention "Sir,
the ship is ready for departure." she said to both Tarva and
Assali.
    "Very good," Tarva said "prepare for departure."
    The four boarded the ship.  It had been loaded with an array
of trade goods and amenities for long haul travel.  It really
looked and smelled like someone had been living in it for a long
time.
    O'Malley sat in the pilot's seat with Assali at co-pilot.
Albert and Meede sat in makeshift net type slings in the cargo
area.  "This is the Faraday requesting clearance for departure."
O'Malley said to flight control.
    "Faraday your cleared for liftoff." Taragoma replied.
    The blast shields in the cabin snapped shut as the Faraday
slowly lifted from the deck.  The ship rotated forcing the aft
end through the force field of the bay so it could slip free of
the ship.  O'Malley hated flying blind.
    The Vigilante had moved to the asteroid belt to let the
Faraday out unseen.  The blast shields remained shut until the
ship was clear of the Vigilante's cloaking.  Great measures had
been taken to keep details from their guests, they weren't about
to cancel that by letting them get a look at the actual ship.


    "Captain," Lieutenant Penthrach turned toward Malory "We're
being hailed by an incoming transport."
    Malory wore a small regen patch near his ear and sat extra
straight still feeling the effects of the back brace he'd very
recently shed.  "On screen."
    The face of a young, red haired female human filled the
screen.  "Hailing the U.S.S. Delphi, this is the Transport
Faraday."
    "This is the Delphi, Captain Malory speaking." Malory said.
    "Captain" the woman replied "I'm Janny Osborn, owner and
operator of the Faraday.  I believe I have some people you've
been looking for."
    "Indeed?" Malory tried to sound slightly intrigued but not
really interested.
    They could see her reach up and adjust something on the
control board.  The view on the screen started to widen
revealing a very familiar face.
    Malory stood up quickly to the sounds of gasps from the rest
of the bridge crew.  "What is the meaning of this?" he tried to
sound as surprised as the rest of the crew.
    Commander Assali sat next to the pilot, he wore a tattered
environmental suit and was smudged with dirt. "Captain, Sir,
permission to come aboard?" he said.
    "It's a trick." Qhasmon hissed "We saw them die in that
explosion."
    Malory ignored the Andorean "Are there any other survivors?"
he asked trying to sound very unconvinced.
    "All three of us survived," Assali said "the others are in
the back.  Sir, if we could expedite this, we haven't had a
shower in quite awhile."
    Malory signaled to have audio broadcast cut then turned to
the ORACLE operator "What can you tell me about that ship?" he
had to cover all the bases he normally would.
    "Sir, I read four life forms, all humanoid." She scanned the
readings closer "There is no unusual power output or
substances." she continued to dial in, "In fact, sir, I read the
power output to be quite weak.  My first guess would be that the
dilithium crystals are deteriorated."
    Malory turned back to the screen "Permission granted to land
your craft in shuttle bay 1."  He then cut the audio transmitter
again and turned to the intercom. "Security and Medical to
Shuttle Bay 1.  Shuttle Bay 1 prepare for incoming transport."
    "Captain," O'Malley said cautiously trying to play the role
"Your crew has promised me certain compensation for returning
them."
    "Are you trying to ransom my crew to me, Captain Osborn?"
Malory asked very suspiciously, he hadn't been told of this
twist.
    "No, Sir." O'Malley replied with what seemed to be a twinge
of fear.  "It's just that this being a high security area I may
have trouble leaving freely.  I've been promised safe passage,
absolutely no interference."
    Malory looked toward Assali for confirmation "That's
correct, Sir.  With the stipulation that she does not incur any
offenses while with us."
    O'Malley laughed "Yea, I'm to be on my best behavior."  She
then said "There is one other thing that is even more
important."
    "And what is that?" Malory said, though, knowing how these
people operated he could guess what it was.
    "As your scanners have probably already told you," O'Malley
said "My supply of dilithium crystals has begun to deteriorate.
I've been promised the needed repairs to the drive and
replacement of the crystals."
    "What ever Mr Assali has promised, I will stand by." Malory
finally said tiring of the 'negotiations'.
    "Very good" the red head said "Starting approach to shuttle
bay."  the screen returned to standard view of the approaching
ship.
    "Sir," Penthrach said "In coming message from Admiral Hrgon.
Apparently he's been monitoring the conversation."
    'Here it comes' Malory thought to himself then said "Thank
you Mr Penthrach, I'll take it in my ready-room."

    The transport expertly slid into the shuttle bay and set
down smoothly.  The door on the side of the long boxy body
hissed and jerked open.  Steam poured out of release valves
partially obscuring the opening.  A short figure walked up to
the door way then started down the stairs.  He wore a tattered
environmental suit and carried the helmet professionally under
one arm.
    The semi circle of security guards around the opening knew
at once it was Lieutenant Meede.  Immediately behind Meede, came
Midshipman Albert looking similarly disheveled.  By the time
Meede reached the deck the doorway was filled by Commander
Assali.  Finally, Chief of Security Zalvosta loudly said
"Attention, First Officer on Deck"  bringing the assembly to
stiff attention as Commander Assali descended the ramp.
    Zalvosta approached the three "Sir, Welcome back" She said.
    "Where's Captain Malory?" Assali asked.  Then smiled "I
thought he would be here to greet his prodigal sons personally."
    "Sir," Zalvosta replied "He received an urgent message from
Admiral Hrgon just as you were making your final approach."
    "Yes, I understand." they were expecting as much.
    Doctor Mayak approached with her team to begin preliminary
scans of the survivors.  Zalvosta turned to speak with Meede
but was distracted by a commotion from the assembly.  Coming
down the gangplank was an oddly dressed woman with slicked down
bright red hair.
    The woman wore what appeared to be an assortment of
mismatched older style Romulan and Klingon uniforms.  There was
also a small assortment of equipment strapped to her, not the
least of which was an old Romulan disrupter casually dangling
from her round hip.  This was obviously the pilot, Janny Osborn.
    "Ms Osborn," Zalvosta said when she reached the bottom of
the steps "I'm going to have to ask you to leave the weapon with
us for the duration of your stay."
    O'Malley looked at Zalvosta suspiciously for a second then
looked at Meede and Assali, Assali nodded.  O'Malley made a
quick motion toward the disrupter jerking it from the holster
and spinning it next to her at the same time.  The barrel ended
in her hand with butt pointing out.  She then turned and gave it
to Meede.

-----------

    The assembly sat in one of the Delphi's meeting rooms.
Present were Admiral Hrgon and his aid, Captain Malory,
Commander Assali, Lieutenant Meede, and Midshipman Albert.  Also
present was the ORACLE operator on duty at the time of the
explosion at AR-24 and Janice O'Malley.
    O'Malley sat toward one end of the table away from the rest.
She was slouched back with her feet sticking out in front of
her.  It was all she could do to keep from putting them up on
the table but figured she was pushing it as it was.  She really
enjoyed playing the rogue.
    Admiral Hrgon turned to O'Malley "Let me get this straight,
you were passing by the AR-24 system when you picked up a
distress signal?"
    "As I've said several times before," O'Malley said "I was
passing by the system when I received what sounded like a
distress call.  The Faraday was already starting to have
problems but I figured there may at least be something to
salvage.  It wouldn't take much to scan the area and see if I
could find something to help fix my drive."
    "You weren't even thinking of survivors?" Malory asked.
    "Of course, if there were survivors there would be a better
chance of some usable equipment.  Besides, a lot of times there
is a reward for the safe return of survivors.  Sometimes, the
survivors are able to express their appreciation for being
rescued."  O'Malley had rehearsed the story well.
    "Did you know that charging survivors for rescue is against
just about every code there is?" Hrgon asked in disbelief.
    "Of course, but there is usually some sort of voluntary
reward.  For instance, I would not have come here if it wasn't
for your crew.  My first choice was the Nexus Colony, they were
much closer and not nearly as patrolled as this place is."
    "And you would have had to pay for your own repairs at
Nexus, is that right?" Hrgon was more making a statement then
asking a question.
    "I'm a trader, I have to make the greatest return possible.
If I come out of this with free quality repairs, I've done quite
well."
    "Surely" Hrgon said trying to look threatening "You know
that if we run a complete I.D. check on you, you'd probably be
arrested."
    "I was assured safe passage by a Commander in Star Fleet,
that was enough for me." O'Malley had to remain confident.
    "That is enough, Sir." O'Malley said firmly to Hrgon.
"We've had enough tragedy from this incident, it's time to close
the book on it."
    Hrgon took the opportunity to turn on Malory "And how do you
explain abandoning your landing party on a planet with a hostile
environment?"
     "Sir, there were several factors leading to the apparent
'abandonment'.  First of all, there was some effect from the
rock structures on the planet on the ORACLE sensors. Couple this
with the storms, and we were effectively sensor blind. False
images abounded and by the time we did get a good check, thanks
to the timely recovery of Lt. T'irna, there were no life signs
on the planet. Moreover, both you and Star Fleet command had
ordered the DELPHI to come here at once anyway. You because you
wanted to question the survivors personally, and Star Fleet
command on the whims of the late Commodore Albrit."
    Hrgon frowned at the shifting of blame but before he could
say anything Assali said "Sir, we were unconscious for over
twenty four hours, by the time we dug our way out of the sand we
could not reach the Delphi, our communicators were destroyed.
If Ms Osborn hadn't also heard the distress call that originally
brought the Delphi in we would be dead by now."
    The discussion of detailed events lasted several more hours.
Each person involved ended up telling their story several times,
some times in groups and sometimes separately.  In the end Hrgon
begrudgingly closed the case accepting the stories as they stood
but vowed that he knew some kind of cover up was happening.  He
also said that he thought that all of this was somehow connected
with Whitecloud and 'The Vigilante' and would eventually prove
it.

-----------

    Malory, Meede and Assali stood in the shuttle bay to see
O'Malley off, all other standard personnel had been dismissed.
Meede carried the disrupter and gave it back to O'Malley as she
stood in front of the ramp.
    "I'm glad you finally decided to trust us" O'Malley said to
Meede spinning the weapon back into it's holster.
    "I didn't have much choice." he said then added with as much
of a smile as he could muster "I half wish I was going with you,
that was a fine crew."
    "Thank you," O'Malley said "Coming from you, that is quite a
complement."
    She then turned to Assali.
    "Give my regards to everyone, I wish you the best of luck."
Assali said holding out his hand.
    O'Malley shook the Commander's hand and said "Thank you,
sir, we'll need it."
    Malory also offered his hand "I thought I had said all of my
good byes already." he said "Just make sure you bring them back,
is that clear."
    "Yes, Sir." O'Malley said then shook his hand.  Before she
let go, she hugged the Captain lightly then the other two.
Janice then climbed the steps to the Faraday and disappeared
behind them as they closed.
    The Faraday waited as the bay doors opened then slid out of
the Delphi and headed to the asteroid belt.


                              ++++

    The woman standing next to Captain Anthony's bed seemed tall
for a human female.  Her wavy blond hair was cut to above
shoulder length and was held casually away from her face with
several clips.  She wore the red uniform and insignia of Star
Fleet Command.
    Anthony stared at the woman as she sat down on the edge of
his bed.  "Robert," she said softly "your doing the right thing.
Star Fleet needs information on the Borg.  If they ever return
in force, it could mean the end of life as we know it.  You know
that can't be allowed to happen.  Everybody here knows the
risks, they've accepted them.  Use the information we obtained
from the battle to keep your crew alive."
    "I've lost so many already" he whispered "and we haven't
even left the Federation."
    "I know," she said soothingly "many more could die too, if
you let them."
    Anthony raised his hand to touch her face and she reached
out to touch his.  "I love you.." he said as she faded away.

    The door signal chimed waking Anthony, he called for the
visitor to enter.  Commander Tarva came in and stood at
attention just inside the door.
    "Sir," she said "all final tests have been completed, the
U.S.S. Vigilante is ready for deployment."
    "Very good," he said "Notify all hands to prepare for
departure within the hour.  I'll be with you in a moment." Tarva
reached for the wall mounted communicator to relay the orders
and Captain Anthony headed into the bathroom to change.
    Tarva waited in the first room in her standard 'at-ease'
posture looking around the Captain's cabin.  She had been here
before but had never taken a close look at it.  The cabin
consisted of three rooms separated by the same style dividers as
in her room.  The first room was set up as a meeting room with a
table and several chairs.  The middle room was the sitting room,
with a couch and the standard rough duty chairs.  The third room
had the large, almost double bed, closet and other amenities.
    Next to the door, was a shelf with a glass covered pedestal.
On the pedestal was a faded blue book with well worn edges.  In
the upper right hand quadrant were stacked faded gold print
words 'Collected Poems of Robert Service'.
    Tarva pushed a button on the pedestal, the front of the
glass opened and the platform holding the book slid out at her.
Tarva carefully opened the front cover and saw a name penned on
the inside 'L..ry Na..' the rest seemed to be an address.
Something compelled her to turn to the end of the book and read
the last stanza of the last poem...

               And so, frail creatures of a day,
             Let's have a good time while we may,
             And do the very best we can
             To give one to our fellow man;
             Knowing that all will end with Death,
             And lift our heads like blossoms blithe
             To meet at last the Swinging Sythe.
                             FINIS

                        to be continued........


------------




                   T  H E   V I G I L A N T E

                              IVA

                        "Ring of Spears"




            "Deny your God!" they ringed me with their spears;
            Blood-crazed were they, and reeking from the strife;
            Hell-hot their hate, and venom-fanged their sneers,
            And one man spat on me and nursed a knife.
            ..........
                 "The Soldier of Fortune"
                      Robert Service



    The screen showed the count down, fifteen minutes was almost
up....00:59, 00:58...the bridge crew sat quietly, preparing for
the inevitable...Phasers had been secured by all stations, just
in case....00:37, 00:36...
    Captain Anthony looked at his crew, they seemed almost
relaxed, but they had done this before...0:24, 0:23...
    Behind the numbers, were the rushing stars illusion of warp.
The Vigilante had jumped to high warp when the count down had
reached 01:00.
    Ensign O'Malley watched the displays on her control panel.
Had she set the coordinates properly? or would they die in the
middle of a star.  She was aware of the padding of the head rest
of her seat.  She could remember how it felt in the
past...00:13, 00:12...
    Commander Norton couldn't suppress a grin, this was the
ultimate adventure, from a planet of half breed out-casts to the
greatest mission ever, he'd been preparing for this all his
life...
    The computer voice came on "TEN, NINE,...".  it seemed like
an eternity, "...THREE, TWO, ONE." The stars on the screen
turned blue and started forming rings.
    00:01, 00:02 ...the numbers started counting back up but
blurred from the screen...
    Captain Anthony felt the seat wrap around him, like in the
past.  The blue tunnel on the view screen started rushing at
him, it was pushing him through the chair.  He instinctively
tried to reach for the console in front of him but his arms
refused to move.  A noise started coming to him, it was a chorus
of screams, he joined in....

    In engineering, Commander Dolittel watched anti-matter
mixing chamber 1 pulse at its steady rate.  The worm-hole was
caused by alignments in the warp drives, what most engineers
would consider a fatal design flaw.  The power draw wasn't any
different than it was at warp 9.6 so engineering wasn't as taxed
a one would think.  The blue rings of the worm-hole drove
through him....

    As quickly as the discomfort had started, it was over.  It
left behind splitting headaches and knotted muscles.  It seemed
only a short time, but ten minutes had past.
    Captain Anthony undid the restraints and slid from his chair
gasping.  On either side of him, Tarva and Norton also tried to
catch their breath and fumbled at the restraints.  Anthony knelt
on the deck at the foot of his chair, his right arm lay across
the seat and the other propped him up.  This had been the
longest jump yet and he could feel it.
    The standard rushing stars of warp were back on the screen,
superimposed on them was the worm-hole count, 10:00.  Anthony
looked to his helmsman.
    "Full Stop."
    "Aye, Aye, Sir." the Ensign said "Full stop".  He then
pushed a few buttons on his console.  The rushing stars
disappeared.
    Anthony pulled himself back into his chair, "Mr. Norton,
report."
    "Sir," Norton paused trying to clear his head completely. "I
read no sign of activity in this sector and no sign of the worm
hole."
    "Thank you, Commander." Anthony turned toward his navigator.
"Ensign O'Malley, do you have our location plotted yet?"
    Janice leaned forward with left elbow on her console and
held her head while she worked with her right hand.  "Sir,
destination sector confirmed, we're at the far side of suspected
Ferengi frontier."  They had gone completely through the Romulan
empire and now were beyond any sector the Federation had ever
visited.
    "Very good, begin plotting the next leap....Ah, Ensign, this
time lets keep worm-hole time down to around, say eight minutes.
That last ride just about did everybody in."
    "Aye, Sir." Janice smiled, the Captain was trying to make it
sound like he wasn't responsible for that ten minute jump.
    Janice began plotting the next leap.  After each use of the
worm-hole they had to recalculate a new heading.  The worm-hole
never placed them exactly where they had intended and the error
increased the longer the jump.
    Anthony turned on the ship's public address system
"Attention crew, prepare for next controlled worm-hole in one
hour.  All stations should have status reports filed with in
fifteen minutes.  That is all."
    For the next hour, the bridge crew reviewed the reports from
the rest of the ship and ran tests of their own.  It was
imperative that The Vigilante be in perfect condition before
using the worm-hole.

-----------

    Anthony sat in the Command Room at the head of the long
table.  He'd been reviewing some of the command reports but his
attention had wandered to a nearby window.  The blast shields
had been opened to give him a view, now he just sat and stared
at the stars.   The blackness and the stars engulfed him.
    The mission had been so long in the making, it was hard to
believe they had finally taken the first step.  Two more jumps
would put them in the same sector that The Enterprise had first
encounter the Borg.  The Enterprise had been 'flung' there by an
entity known as the 'Q'.  It had apparently wanted to prove that
the Federation was not prepared for what lay outside of its
borders.  That one encounter, had brought the Borg to the heart
of the Federation.  That one encounter had changed his life,
forever.  That one encounter, in fact, had brought this crew
together.
    Anthony still wondered what it was like when the Nielsen was
destroyed.  Did she die doing battle or was she merely swept
aside like so many other victims.  He would never know, and when
it came down to it, he didn't really want to know.
    The stars suddenly disappeared replaced by the dull gray of
the blast shield.  Anthony could hear the door slide open and
someone enter the room.  He turned to look.
    "Sir," it was Commander Tarva.  She stood in her stiff.
at-ease posture, close enough to the door to keep it open.  "We
are prepared to begin count down for the second worm-hole."
    Anthony looked at his First Officer, she had been at
Wolf-359.  He wanted to ask her what she knew of the Nielsen but
couldn't.  He knew that it was as difficult for her to speak of
as it was for him.  Just having her as his first officer, made
him feel closer to the last moments of his real life.
    "Thank you, Commander, make it so."
    "Very good, Sir."  Tarva came to attention, snapped about
face, then exited the room.
    Tarva was a true enigma, sometimes she was, stiff,
absolutely military, other times, she acted like an old friend.
Perhaps she could sense when he needed distance, or perhaps, she
needed the distance.

-----------

    The jumps seemed to get easier, perhaps they were getting
used to them.  The crew came out of the third jump fully
functional, which was good, since it was a suspected Borg
sector.  This was the same sector the Enterprise had first met
the Borg.
    "Long range sensors report." Anthony said immediately.
    Norton checked his screen.  "Sir, scanners indicate no
activity in this sector."
    Anthony had released himself from the restraints and was
stretching.  He turned to Commander Tarva "Commander, what's our
status?"
    "Sir, all sections report no apparent damages.  Full reports
will be ready shortly."  Tarva was still fully strapped into her
seat.
    Anthony stood behind O'Malley who was still trying to
stretch off the effects of the worm-hole.  "Ensign, how many
star systems are in this sector?"
    "Checking now, Sir." O'Malley immediately reached for her
controls.  "Sir, there are three systems in this sector, one
yellow system and two reds."
    "Thank you, Ensign."  Anthony turned and looked at his crew
while he thought.  Their mission was quite open ended, seek out
the Borg in the heart of their territory and collect as much
useful information on them as possible.  They did not know were
the Borg came from, so this was just the first step in tracing
them back to their, hopefully, 'home' planet.  He turned back to
O'Malley.
    "Ensign, plot a course to the nearest system.  What would be
our E.T.A. at Warp seven?"  Anthony stood between the two front
stations with his thumbs hooked in the pockets of his uniform
jacket.
    After a few calculations, she reported "At warp seven, the
closest system is 10 hours 15 minutes away."
    "Very good, lets go take a look."
    "Course laid in, Sir."
    "Engage."
    The helmsman went to work.
    Anthony turned to Norton "Mr Norton, what's our status?"
    "Sir, Shields are currently at 25% power and cloaking is
engaged.  We have full power available any time it is needed."
    Anthony took his seat and turned to Tarva "What do you
think?"
    Tarva had finally taken the time to undue her restraints.
She finished a communication with medical, then turned to the
Captain.  "Sir, we could be exploring out here for a year and
never see a sign of the Borg.  The cube the Enterprise
encountered may have been some sort of long range scout.  There
may never have been any other Borg presence in this quadrant."
    "I quite agree, but this is all we have to go on."
    "Just so we're prepared to do a lot of simple exploring for
the Federation."  Tarva pushed her console aside and stood up to
stretch.
    Anthony stood too, looking at the view screen he smiled "I
hope it doesn't come to that."
    "So do I, Sir"  Tarva returned the ironic grin.

-----------

    Janice had been relieved until they reached the first
system, she had eight hours to get some rest.  In her rooms she
found Whitecloud working on the painting of the eagle again.
    "How can you be working on something like that when we've
finally entered Borg territory?"  she asked.
    Whitecloud seemed to ignore her as she finished a tree line.
Anndrea was wearing a knee length white smock over the standard
tight black under uniform.  She put her brush in a glass of
water and stood up.
    Anndrea smiled at her friend "And why aren't you on the
bridge?"
    Janice was already sitting on the foot of her bed removing
her boots.  She laughed "I guess we all need some time off."
    "Or away," Anndrea added,  then got slightly serious "Your
going to want to get some sleep?"
    "Is that okay?" Janice knew it had to be but couldn't help
being courteous, especially to a ranking officer and friend.
She still hadn't figured out which came first in this forced
relationship.
    "We never should have let ourselves get on differing sleep
schedules."  Anndrea had grabbed her uniform off her bed and
turned to go into the head.
    "Thank you." Janice didn't actually plan to 'go to bed' just
turn down the lights and relax to some music.
    Janice took off her uniform jacket and laid down over the
covers on the bunk.  She looked around the rooms waiting for
Whitecloud to leave so she could turn down the lights.  Janice
looked at the pair of weapons hanging on the wall near
Whitecloud's paintings.  One was the Romulan disrupter she
carried when she'd visited the Delphi.  The other was the,
adjusted phaser that had been beamed to Whitecloud to get her
and Commander Tarva off of Star Base 89.
    Whitecloud came out of the head in full uniform.  "I'll be
in the training room, they may actually need us some time soon."
she smiled.
    "Someday, I suppose." Janice agreed with a laugh.
    Whitecloud turned off the lights as she left.

-----------

    When Janice returned to the bridge, they were just preparing
to drop out of warp for approach to the system.  The system was
a red one.  The star was small and dark.  There were five
planets and two asteroid belts.  Two of the planets appeared to
have atmospheres, the others were gas giants.
    "Sir, approaching first target planet." O'Malley reported.
    "Put it on the main screen." Tarva said and joined Anthony
who was already standing.
    The planet appeared to be brown and very hazy, as if it was
surrounded by a cloud.
    "What's that cloud?" Tarva asked before Captain Anthony
could.
    "Undetermined." O'Malley replied.
    "Sir," it was Lieutenant S'Erlet, the science officer who's
station was on the perimeter behind Tarva.
    "Go ahead." Anthony said to his often neglected Science
Officer.
    "Sir, it appears that the planet is surrounded by a large
amount of debris."  The Vulcan continued to watch his
instruments.
    "What kind of debris, and is it safe for us to take up a
standard orbit?"  Anthony asked.
    "I am not sure of the source of the debris but it appears to
be natural.  We should be safe in a high orbit."
    "Very good, helm take us to a high orbit."
    "Aye, Sir" the helmsman said and made some adjustments to
his controls.
    The Vigilante moved to a high pole to pole orbit.  With the
planet's rotation, they'd be able to do a cursory survey of the
whole planet relatively quickly.
    "Sir," S'Erlet spoke up after about ten minutes of study.
    "Go ahead." was Anthony's only reply.
    "It appears that the debris is made of dirt and rock from
the planet's surface.  The planet has no mineral deposits and
appears to have no layer of top soil.  In fact, I believe that
it is missing several kilometers of its surface thickness."
    "You mean that all of this debris is from the planet
itself?" Tarva asked.
    "Yes, Sir, But I can't make positive conclusions without
visiting the surface directly."  S'Erlet knew he was pushing a
bit with that request but he'd been allowing himself to be in
the background long enough.
    "What's the surface and atmosphere like?" Tarva asked.
    "Sir, there is a thin atmosphere and the surface is almost
all rock." S'Erlet was intrigued that they were taking his
suggestion of an away team seriously.
    Tarva hailed Golta in Drop Team Operations.
    "Golta here." came the gruff Kalonian reply.
    "Prepare an away team to escort Science Officer, Lieutenant
S'Erlet to the surface."  Tarva said casually.
    "Yes, Sir, Golta out."
    S'Erlet fed the necessary planet information to Operations,
then headed down there himself.
    "Helm, adjust orbit to a geo-syncronis orbit over Lieutenant
S'Erlet's chosen coordinates."  Anthony sat back in his chair
and waited.  Soon they'd have their first real look at the
planet.  Could this debris around the planet be, in some way,
related to the Borg?  Probably not, but they had to investigate
every clue.

-----------

    Four figures appeared on the barren rock of the planet.
Three wore dark gray, armored pressure suits the forth wore a
non-armored suit but was the same color and design of the
others.  The fourth also carried two cases of instruments and
immediately opened one.
    The three in armor had phasers in hand and spread out to
survey the area.  "Lieutenant Whitecloud to Vigilante".
    "This is Captain Anthony," Came the immediate reply "go
ahead."
    Whitecloud switched her phaser to her left hand then started
pushing some buttons on the control panels on the left arm.
"Initiating visuals."
    "Acknowledged" There was a pause as they adjusted their view
screen.  "Visuals coming in clear, thank you, Lieutenant."  The
bridge crew were now watching through the mission camera built
into her suit.
    The planet was mostly large smooth rock.  There was very
little dust let alone dirt.  With the thin atmosphere, there
would be no weathering to create the dirt.
    After S'Erlet broke out his equipment and the team started a
slow walking survey of the area.  They soon noticed that the
rocks weren't as smooth as they first appeared.  Many places
were deeply gouged some places even looked cut.  It was hard to
tell what could have done the cutting, but it appeared to have
only happened recently.  The rock formations were not
sedimentary rock, most appeared to be magma formed.
    During most of that day, and the next, the team was
transported all over the planet surveying and tacking samples.
Ten hours after the last survey, Lieutenant S'Erlet was ready to
present his findings.
    S'Erlet stood at the head of the Command Room, seated at the
table nearest him was Lieutenant Whitecloud.  Captain Anthony,
and Commanders Tarva, Norton and Dolittel awaited his report.
    Since Lieutenant Whitecloud had help S'Erlet collect and
sort the data she was there to help with the presentation.  She
pushed a few buttons and brought up a split screen of the
planet.  One side showed an approaching view of the planet in
its brown cloud, the other view showed a dramatic view of the
landscape under a dark brown sky.  The landscape was unique
since it was of totally smooth rock formations and balloon type
mountains.
    "The planet under observation appears to be quite unique."
S'Erlet began "It is composed totally of volcanic rock
formations.  The formations were all formed by cooling lava not
more then one thousand years ago.  Because of the thin
atmosphere, there has been negligible erosion of the rock.
Therefore, it still appears almost exactly as it did when it
first cooled.
    "There are, however, areas where the age of the rock tests
500 million years and older.  These areas are easily spotted
because they have either deep cut marks in them or are partly
covered by the newer more bulbous lava.  If it wasn't for the
extremely old lava formations and the atmosphere, I would have
placed the age of the planet at only about 1500 years."
    S'Erlet paused to allow scenes of the different formations
and types to be shown.  He then continued when a graphic
depiction of the total planetary terrain came up next to the
approach shot.
    "The Debris in orbit around the planet appears to be rock
and perhaps what could be called dirt from the planet.  I have
determined that the debris is from the planet due to its extreme
chemical similarities to the current surface.  With a sufficient
atmosphere, the current surface would eventually weather into
soil of the same make up of the debris in orbit.
    "It is my theory that the debris around the planet was
originally part of the planet's surface."  The graphic of the
current planet filled in, adding layers of dirt and other common
surface features.
    "The biggest detraction from this theory is that the
estimated total mass of the debris would not be sufficient to
cover the planet properly.  There is also only trace amounts of
metals and other minerals."
    Anthony spoke up "Lieutenant, if your contention is that the
debris around the planet is not sufficient to cover its surface
where do you propose it came from?"
    "Sir, it is my theory that the debris did come from the
planet.  I believe that it was forcibly removed and all usable
minerals and ore where taken.  In essence, the planet was
totally strip mined and the 'slag' was dumped into orbit.  This
process would probably also destroy the planets atmosphere."
    Dolittel spoke up "That's impossible, who would do such a
thing?"
    "Sir," S'Erlet returned "You forget where we're at."
    "But the Borg don't 'mine', they take what other cultures
have already created." Tarva said.
    "They don't mine now, but what did they do a thousand years
ago when this appears to have happened?" S'Erlet argued.  "Also,
the gouges in the older rock indicate that this was not caused
by a natural phenomenon."
    Captain Anthony stood up as S'Erlet sat down.  "Thank you
Lieutenant, is there anything else you'd like to mention before
we move on?"
    "Yes, Sir" S'Erlet said and pushed a few buttons on his
console.  The view screen changed to show another planet that
appeared to be surrounded by the same cloud of debris.  "This is
our first view of the other planet in this system that appears
to have some sort of atmosphere.  As you can see, it too suffers
from the same affliction as this one.  In all of the
Federation's explorations, there has never been another planet
showing the same phenomenon.  Now we have two."
    "Perhaps it is unique to this system." Anthony said.
    "Perhaps." S'Erlet agreed.
    The group discussed the possible history of both planets
then decided to visit the other planet and make a similar
survey.  It was hoped that similarities or differences between
the planets would confirm something, anything.

    The second planet showed even more signs of deep regular
cuts in the old magma.  It was finally decided to register this
under possible activity by the Borg or other advanced culture.
    The Vigilante then moved on to the other two systems in the
sector.  All three systems' planets showed the same signs of
total strip mining.  In all, they discovered ten planets that
had been destroyed in the same manner.  The other planets in the
systems were gas giants and thus were not approachable in this
manner.
    It was even decided that some of the planets may have had
extremely severe atmospheres.  The first thing the 'pillagers'
of these planets would have done was rip the atmospheres away,
it would have made things much easier.  The power needed to do
this was incomprehensible and had not until this point ever been
attributed to the Borg.

-----------
              ********
              And there was I, sore wounded and alone,
              I, the last living of my slaughtered Band.
              Oh sinister the sky, and cold as stone!
              In one red laugh of horror reeled the land.
              And dazed and desperate I faced their spears,
              And like a flame, out-leaped that naked knife,
              And like a serpent stung their bitter jeers:
              "Deny your god and we will give you life"
              *********

    Captain Anthony sat in the Command Room looking out the
window.  They had visited three systems and ten planets, now
what.  They had taken the opportunity to launch drop ships to do
the surveys more efficiently.  They had run more drills and the
drop teams were in constant training.  Still, they had nothing
new to go on, they knew no more about the current state of the
Borg then when they left the Federation.
    The next question was, where next?  He had several choices:
they could pick a random course and just go hunting.  They could
start a spiral exploration of adjoining sectors until they found
more stripped planets.  They could follow a trail of stripped
planets hoping it would lead to the Borg.  The only problem, was
that the trail could lead away from the Borg.  Also, all of the
planets in this area could be stripped, effectively making no
trail at all.
    Another suggestion was to follow the course the original
Borg cube was on when the Enterprise met it.  This led to
another problem, should they follow the cube where it was going
to, or coming from.  A wrong decision could waste a lot of time.
    "Robert," the voice came from the back of his mind.  "Follow
your instincts, they've never failed you."
    "But I've never had so little to go on." he thought back.
He opened his eyes, standing just outside the window was a woman
in a standard red command uniform.
    "Your closer than you think." she said in the back of his
mind.
    Anthony stood up and approached the window, he whispered
"This isn't the way we were suppose to be."
    "I know." she said.
    The woman faded and became his reflection as Anthony reached
out and touched the window.
    Anthony was startled by the piping sound from the bridge.
"Bridge to Captain Anthony."
    "Go ahead." he said to the window.
    "Sir, long range scanners show something moving across our
scan area."
    "Thank you, I'll be right there." Anthony stared back at his
reflection in the window for a second; then turned and exited to
the bridge.
    Captain Anthony walked out to see a graphic depiction of the
scanner display on the main view screen.  It was a semi-circle
grid with the flat side along the bottom of the view screen.
The center of the line indicted the Vigilante's current,
relative position.  Moving across the top of the screen were
three blips.
    "Report." he said as he took his seat.
    "Sir," O'Malley responded "We have three objects moving
across the limits of our scanners at high warp."
    "Can you tell anything about them?"
    "No, Sir, not at this range.  Current velocity, however, is
warp nine."
    "Thank you Ensign." Anthony said then turned to Tarva "Sound
yellow alert.  Have all hands prepare for battle stations and
silent running."
    He then turned back to Ensign O'Malley "Ensign, plot an
intercept course, I want to come in from behind.  First get us
behind them, then we can approach from the back."
    O'Malley worked for a few minutes then put a projected
course on the screen.  "Sir, at warp 9.2 we can get behind them
in about twenty minutes.  We could then approach them at a lower
velocity at our leisure."
    "Very good." Anthony smiled "Make it so."
    "Course laid in, Sir" O'Malley reported.
    "Engage."
    The Helmsman pushed a few buttons then reported "Warp 9.2"
the tactical display was replaced by the rushing stars illusion
of warp.
    Anthony turned back to Tarva "I want boarding teams ready to
explore the ships.  We'll start without the armor if possible,
we don't want to give away all of our secrets right off."
    He then turned to Norton "Have guards posted EVERYWHERE, if
these guys can board us I don't want them to have time to do any
damage."
    He then said to both Commanders "As of right now, nobody is
off duty."
    The bridge was suddenly full of activity as guards were
posted and non-regular stations were manned.  The guards seemed
unnecessary since the whole crew, even on the bridge were armed.
Two guards, however, were posted on either side of the view
screen.
    They all took time to check their weapons for full charges.
Every station through out the Vigilante had a phaser holder.
Some had boxes built into the consoles others had what looked
like holsters built into the sides of consoles and chairs.  The
crew kept the phasers with them at all times but placed them in
the holders for convenience while on duty.
    After ten minutes, Ensign O'Malley reported "Sir, I've
confirmed six, repeat six, Borg cubes traveling in formation.
Current velocity is exactly warp 9."
    The Vigilante dropped in behind the Borg ships keeping them
at about one quarter maximum sensor range.  The distance was
close enough to allow a rather good view at extreme
magnification.  The six ships flew in three pairs or two stacks
of three.  The precise symmetry made them look like three ships
on the long range scanners.
    "Analysis" Anthony said turning to Lieutenant S'Erlet for
the more precise sensor reports.
    "Sir, the ships have exactly the same measurements of the
ship that invaded the Federation."  He continued to adjust his
controls.  "They, however, have a greater mass.  Each ship, in
fact, has quite a different mass than the other."  he hit a few
buttons and the respective masses were superimposed over their
images on the screen.
    "How odd," Tarva said "that they would build seven ships of
exactly the same dimensions but make them very so in mass."
    "The mass on these ships is distributed quite unevenly, as
if it was added recently."  S'Erlet thought for a second then
added "Perhaps they are carrying cargo."
    Before anybody could respond, Ensign O'Malley spoke up "Sir,
I'm reading more ships behind us.  They've just come into
scanner range."
    "How many?" Tarva said very interested.
    "There's at least twelve and their gaining, but slowly."
O'Malley continued to watch her output.
    "Are they more Borg?" Anthony asked his frown betrayed his
concern.
    "Unknown at this time, Sir." O'Malley said "But at our
current velocity they should be in range to tell in about twenty
two hours."
    Anthony looked at his crew "Options."
    Tarva turned toward the Captain "We could wait for them to
get close enough for a better reading, or..." she hesitated.
    "Or what Commander?" Anthony asked knowing what she was
probably going to say.
    "Or, Sir, we could go back and take a look at them or just
stop and wait for them.  Either way, with them doing warp nine
plus, we would know in about 10 minutes."
    Anthony thought for a second, running his hand through what
little hair he still had on the top of his head, then said "Take
us down to warp four, but keep us out of their way.  We want
them to go past us no through us."
    The Vigilante swung wide to port then slowed down to warp
four.  Within minutes, O'Malley reported "Sir, I read fifteen
ships.  None of them appear to be of Borg design.  They are
traveling at Warp 9.01."  She continued to check her displays.
    S'Erlet then added "Sir, the ship designs do not match any
of those that the Federation has ever encountered."
    "They will be by us in about fifteen minutes" O'Malley
added.
    "Who are they?" Anthony asked to no one specifically.
    "They're us, Sir." Tarva said coldly.
    "Excuse me." Anthony looked at his first officer.
    "Sir, I believe that the six Borg ships have just
'assimilated' another civilization.  These fifteen ships have
taken pursuit, like any remnants of the Federation would have
done if the Borg had been successful at Sol-3."
    "That's why those Borg ships have extra mass, it does fit."
Anthony said.

    The fleet of alien ships was an impressive armada.  They
were obviously an assortment of different styles and classes.
The lead was a large triangular ship with a second smaller
triangle on top, an apparent bridge.  It made the Vigilante and
most of the other ships in the armada seem small.
    There were several other triangular style ships all much
smaller then the lead but obviously related classes.  The other
ships all had unique designs; some were long and sleek with
large batteries of weapons on them, others were boxy and clumsy
looking, apparently carriers of some sort.
    After they passed, the Vigilante took up behind them
matching speed.  Anthony figured that he should learn about
these people before going in for a close look at the Borg.
Besides, they were slowly gaining on the Borg and at the current
speeds, would be engaging them soon.
    "Sir," O'Malley said "I've found the transmissions from the
lead ship, and we have visuals."
    "Main screen." Tarva said leaning forward in interest.
    The main screen changed to what was apparently an older male
of a humanoid race.  He had long styled hair with full beard and
mustache.  His eyes were a bright red but otherwise his features
were strikingly human.  The man was wearing bright ornate robes
and jewelry.
    The sound was absent, at first, as the universal translator
learned the language.  The man appeared to be making a speech to
the rest of the armada...."so by the will of Lin'hrlar we will
triumph over these creatures spawned from depths of Zin'hrlar's
own madness.  I, the carrier of the heart of Lin'hrlar, will
lead you to the glorious retribution of our peoples."
    Others could be seen behind the speaker.  Some wore similar
ornate robes but not as splendid.  Most, however, wore more
practical uniforms.  All either carried side arms or swords.
    Anthony turned to Commander Norton "What is your analysis of
their strengths, do they have a chance?"
    Norton had been scanning the ships ahead of them "Sir, the
lead ship is highly armed and shielded.  The other ships have an
assortment of technologies.  Most of the technology is on a par
with current weapons in use by the Federation; including,
phasers, photon torpedoes and shield generation.  The larger
ships are carriers of probably small fighter craft.  These
fighters would account for why all of the ships have phaser
turrets that are good only for very close combat.  In fact, none
of the ships seem particularly suited for a prolonged ship to
ship battle."
    Norton paused as he analyzed more information from the
scanners "The lead ship appears to have very powerful phaser
cannons.  The cannons, however, would not be highly effective on
a small or moving target.  My guess is that they're meant for
long range bombardment."
    Tarva was standing, staring at the ships on the screen.
"What kind of propulsion systems do they use?"
    "They seem to use some sort of cross between fission and
anti-matter, probably based on compounds unique to their
systems.  Their actual drive system is similar to our warp but
slightly more efficient then the Federation's standard drives.
I think this accounts for their ability to maintain high warp.
It appears that they can maintain their current velocity
indefinitely, but can't do much beyond that."
    "So their efficiency curve goes right up to warp 9.01 then
drops pretty quickly after that, eh?"  Anthony had sat back in
his chair studying the ships in front of him.  "Now we have to
decide what we're going to do about them."
    Captain Anthony suddenly stood up "Lets discuss this some
place more suitable, Tarva, Simon in the Command Room.
Lieutenant S'Erlet, you have the bridge, let us know if anything
changes."
    "Aye, Sir."
    The three went into the command room to begin discussing
options on how to deal with their 'new friends'.

    "We don't have any choice." Tarva said.
    "How's that?"  Captain Anthony knew exactly what she meant
but he figured he let her voice it first.
    "We can not acknowledge ourselves to these people.  It is
directly against mission directives.  Their intentions are
clear, to attack the Borg.  If we reveal ourselves to them, we
reveal ourselves to the Borg.  Since there is no chance that
they will defeat the Borg, even with our help, then there is no
reason for us to interfere."
    The Captain sat back in his chair "I'm afraid I'd come to
the same conclusion.  It, however, haunts me to just sit back
and watch the remnants of an obviously rich and diverse
civilization be destroyed."
    Commander Norton agreed "It is obvious that we would be
unable to dissuade them from the attack.  They appear to be
driven by a strong religion.  I agree that we have no choice but
to remain observers to this conflict.  Perhaps we can use the
information we gain from the battle in future conflicts."
    Tarva suddenly looked up as if having a revelation "What
about survivors?"
    Anthony looked at her "What?"
    "There's going to be survivors, there's always survivors."
Tarva was living proof of that "Do we just ignore survivors?  If
we're just going to sit this battle out, we've got to do
something."
    "She's right, Sir.  We may be able to justify sitting this
out, but we must help any survivors."  Simon Norton seldom
seemed so passionate about anything.
    Anthony had to play devil's advocate to make sure they
thought of all proper precautions before bringing any of the
survivors aboard his ship.  "What will we do with a group of
aliens on this ship?  How will they react to us, will they
resent us for just sitting back and watching.  I know I would.
Will they cooperate with us when we try to achieve our goals.
If they never trust us, we'll have to keep them confined.
Remember how much trouble we had convincing Assali's men, even
after we convinced him, and we were all Star Fleet."
    Tarva and Norton looked at Anthony wondering what his
decision would be.  He finally said "We'll need security on hand
for everyone we bring aboard.  Treat them as unfriendlies,
that's the way they'll see us, and we must be prepared.  Have
force fields up when they're beamed aboard, we don't know what
their responses will be.  Keep them segregated and guarded, I
don't want them to be able to do any random damage.  At all
times, the safety and mission integrity of the Vigilante must be
maintained.  Is that clear?"
    They were going save some of these people, but probably
scare them to death doing so.
    "Sir, who do we rescue?  Do we take the masses off the ships
before they're destroyed?"  Tarva had to have some 'official'
guide lines set for the transporter operators.
    "We'll only take those people whom we can get without the
Borg noticing.  Escape pods only, and after the Borg have
departed.  We do not have room for the rescue of the whole
ships' crews.  Just those who would survive the battle itself
without us being here."  Anthony thought for a second then added
"If we can pull some of their small craft pilots just as their
ships are destroyed we'll do it.  None others, this battle would
be waged weather we were here or not.  These people have made
their own choice to die revenging their people, we can't deny
them that."
    The intercom opened from the bridge.  "Sir, this is
Lieutenant S'Erlet"
    "Go ahead." Anthony said immediately.
    "Sir, one of the ships has increased speed, it appears that
something is about to happen."  S'Erlet was extremely cautious
presenting his simple conclusion.
    "We'll be right out."  Tarva said and the three stood in
unison.

    When they got onto the bridge, it was apparent that the
largest of the 'carriers' had broken formation and pulled ahead
of the lead ship.  The ship had a large boxy body that looked
like it could almost hold the whole Vigilante.  Along the top
where the body slopped down toward the bridge area were thirteen
round hatches currently closed by spiraling doors.  There was
movement at the bottom of the ship.
    A large door had opened along the bottom with the opening
toward the back of the ship.  The door was centered in the ship
fore to aft and port to starboard.  It was three quarters the
width of the ship and a good quarter of the length.  The opening
created, was obviously protected by a force field since people
and equipment could be seen on the lower portion.  The center of
attention seemed to be an egg shaped craft about the size of a
large shuttle.
    The egg-shuttle soon lifted from its place and slipped free
of the carrier.  It immediately began breaking, and maneuvering
toward the triangular ship.  As soon as the shuttle was clear
the large door began closing and the carrier started maneuvering
to get back into formation.
    The course the shuttle was taking was extremely tricky.  It
apparently didn't have the ability to keep up at warp nine.  It
braked and maneuvered until it was directly in front of the
approaching lead ship.  The lead ship opened a door on its bow
just above the ports for its phaser cannons.  The shuttle
continued to break and adjust its course until the lead ship
swallowed it.

........
              **********
              Deny my God, yes, I could do it well;
              Yet if I did, what of my race, my name?
              How they would spit on me these dogs of hell!
              Spurn me and put me on the brand of shame.
              **********


    "Lord,"  The man had walked through the expansive, crowded
bridge of the Star Watcher then ridden up the lift to the Lord's
Dais.
    The man was Sir Utlin Robe'than second in command of the
carrier Star Controller.  Sir Utlin wore the black uniform of a
fighter pilot but the flowing red cape with high collar of High
Command.  Instead of a straight saber that was traditionally
worn by members of High Command, Sir Utlin carried a battle
blaster.  The large blaster hung comfortably in a similar size
black holster strapped securely to his left thigh.
    Sir Utlin stood out in all company, he had the slim, not
tall frame of High Command but was clean shaven with spiked
short hair of a warrior.  His light brown skin and bright blue
eyes betrayed his origins on Tregamalis, but, in this age of
enlightenment, that fact was ignored, usually.
    Sir Utlin stood with his head bowed and the scroll he was
carrying held tightly to his chest.  He stood next to, Lord
Lang'OA Dowe Fin Dragma, Lord Commander of the Lin'hrlar
Protectorate Fleet.  Lord Dowe finished the work he had before
him then turned to Sir Utlin.
    Sir Utlin could hear the Lord's robes rustle as he turned.
"Sir Utlin, Welcome back to the Star Watcher."
    Utlin snapped his hand down and looked up at Lord Dowe
"Thank you, my Lord." he said then held out the scroll and bowed
slightly from the hips "I bring you the 'Pledge of Following"
from Commander Travois of the Star Controller."
    The 'Pledge of Following' was an ancient custom among
Commanders when they were about to follow a Lord into what was
considered a hopeless, but Holy, battle.  Commander Travois was
always the last to issue his pledge, because he never considered
a battle hopeless.  The more 'hopeless' battles Commander
Travois survived, the later his pledges became.  The pledges
had, for some Lords, however, become more of a vote of
confidence then an oath of 'willingness to die'.
    This final remittance of the 'Oath' from Commander Travois,
was, in fact, a very ominous event.  It was an admission from
the most seasoned Commander of the Fleet that he truly expected
to die in the coming battle.
    Lord Dowe took hold of the pledge but didn't take it.  His
red eyes looked through his beard at Sir Utlin.  "It will not be
long now, Sir Utlin."  he said then took the scroll.
    Utlin stood up straight "Yes my Lord," he said formally "I
know."
    An aid working at a console next to Lord Dowe spoke up "My
Lord, we will be within range in ten par."
    "Very good, alert the fleet, start charging the guns." Lord
Dowe then turned to Sir Utlin "You'll want to get back to the
Star Controller before the battle begins." he said.
    "Yes, my Lord."
    Lord Dowe formally opened the scroll and read it, then
rolled it back up and placed it in a rack behind his throne.  It
joined 13 other scrolls.  "Dismissed."
    "Thank you, my Lord" Sir Utlin said then made a sharp
about-face causing his cape to fan about him then headed to the
lift.

..........

    Half an hour after the shuttle had entered the leader's
ship, S'Erlet reported "Sir, the carrier is opening its door
again."
    The Vigilante had taken up a position even with the plane
formed by the formation of the alien ships.  From this vantage
point they could monitor the entire fleet.  The giant door on
the carrier had begun to open again, only this time the opening
was toward the front of the ship rather than the rear.
    "Sir," S'Erlet said "I'm reading movement on the lead ship."
    The shuttle doors on the lead ship had also opened.  The egg
shaped shuttle suddenly exited at a high rate of speed.  It
immediately turned back toward the carrier.  The ship was
breaking severely causing it to approach the carrier extremely
quickly.  It landed in the opened bay almost recklessly.
Because of the size of the bay, it was obvious that the
precision flying was not needed this time around.
    "There's something else," Commander Norton said after
checking his scanners "All ships are starting to show large
power build ups.  The lead ship is apparently charging its
phaser cannons."
    "Can those things be effective at warp 9?" Lieutenant
S'Erlet asked.
    "They must know what they're doing." Tarva said then hit the
red alert button.
    Commanders Norton and Tarva began issuing instructions for
the transporter rooms to retrieve survivors.  Tarva then
reported to the Captain "There are drop teams ready for
deployment in the 'cavern'.  There are also guards standing by
in Transporter Room II. "
    Anthony turned to Commander Norton "Mr Norton, what's our
status?"
    "Sir," Norton replied immediately "Shields are at full
strength, cloaking is on line, all phasers are at full power and
all torpedo delivery systems are loaded."
    Tarva then hailed engineering "Commander Norton, report
status."
    There was a slight delay then Dolittel's voice came over the
intercom.  "Sir, engineering is sealed for battle.  All
personnel are on station.  Repair contingency and rescue teams
are stationed through out the ship."

    Commander Dolittel sat in the rough duty chair in his
command center between the two engine rooms.  Through windows to
his right and left he could see both anti-matter mixing
chambers.  The chambers pulsed casually, in unison, as if
nothing out of the ordinary was happing.
    Right now, the only access between the two rooms were the
doors into his office.  Dolittel could see his technicians at
station.  Most were strapped into rough duty chairs, others were
tying things up before getting into theirs.  There were also
armed guards standing in strategic locations in both rooms.
These guards had the most hazardous stations since evacuation
was designed to drop the rough duty chairs to safety.  The
guards would have to make a run for it if an evacuation was
called.

    "Prepare to drop out of warp on notice" Tarva said to the
helmsman.
    They then waited for the action to start.  The first out
ward sign was from the carrier.  The round doors on the top of
the ship spun open.  Similar doors on the other smaller carriers
also began to open.
    "I have numerous small power sources in all carriers."
S'Erlet said.
    As if to punctuate what S'Erlet just said, thirteen small
craft launched from the newly open doors.  There were apparently
two different types, one was a single seater, the other seemed
to be a two seater.  The single seater had a long tubular body
with warp style engines held out to the side like out riggers.
The two seater was rounded but wider with the pilots apparently
sitting side by side.

............

              **********
              Then, through the ringing terror and sheer hate
              Leaped there a vision to me- Oh, How far!
              A face, Her face...through all my stormy fate
              A joy, a strength, a glory and a star.
              **********

    Upon returning to the Star Controller, Sir Utlin was
confronted by the confusion caused from the impending
deployment.  The shuttle was immediately snatched up by giant
lifts and moved to its storage bay.
    Normally all activity would cease for the passage of a High
Commander, but in times of war these courtesies were suspended.
Sir Utlin always considered most courtesies to High Command a
hindrance anyway.
    Sir Utlin strode confidently across the bay barely aware
that the platform was moving beneath him.  Utlin's cape flared
behind him as he rounded the corner to the lift.
    An operator at the lift immediately came to attention and
saluted, right hand to the chest and a slight bow of the head.
"Sir," he said "Commander Travois wishes a conference with you
before your launch."
    Utlin returned the salute, but without the bow, and said
"Thank you, please take me to the Command Center."
    The open air lift had room for a dozen warriors but non rode
with Sir Utlin.  They sped up past the hangers of hundreds of
fighters.  The fighters hung by great hooks to be more easily
lifted into launch preparation areas.  The system allowed for
hundreds of fighters to be launched in minutes.

    Sir Utlin walked into the small office without being
announced.  If any other crew member, even Command, had done
this, Commander Travois would have their head.  Sir Utlin,
however, being second in command, always had direct access to
the Commander.
    Commander Travois Beu'lrmt Van'derla wore an ornate version
of the black warriors uniform that his first officer wore.  Over
the uniform he also wore a red cape but once again more ornate
and much longer.  Sir Utlin always considered capes that hung
lower than the knees to be impractical and too bulky.
    Commander Travois had long brown gray hair and full beard of
a proper High Commander.  He had light brown skin like Sir Utlin
but had bright red eyes like Lord Dowe.  Though none would admit
it, this one small difference would always relegate Sir Utlin to
Second in Command, and HE knew it.
    Commander Travois looked up as Sir Utlin entered the office.
"Welcome my friend." he said and stood to welcome him.
    Sir Utlin came to attention and saluted with a slight bow
and said "Commander, you wished to see me before I launched?"
    Commander Travois returned the salute with the bow, which
surprised Utlin "Yes, with the Pledge of Following I have
acknowledged to all that I believe this is a hopeless battle.
Many, however, believe that we can win because this is a Just
War."  the worry in Commander Travois' eyes was evident.  He sat
down heavily and leaned back.
    "My friend," Travois continued "These creatures have already
destroyed everything we ever held dear.  They've destroyed
hundreds of ships and killed millions of people.  Our kingdom is
dead.  Lord Dowe believes we can defeat them, I do not."
    Sir Utlin shifted from side to side not knowing why
Commander Travois was stating the obvious "Commander, is there
something more?"
    "I want you to promise me something, between friends and
warriors." Travois said and leaned forward a bit over his desk.
    Sir Utlin stiffened and said "Anything my Commander."
    Commander Travois withdrew the long straight sword from its
sheath on the side of his desk. "Promise me that you will fight
this coming fight as you never have."
    "That goes with out saying." Sir Utlin said almost insulted.
    "I'm not done." Travois said unannoyed by the interruption.
He then handed the sword to Utlin, hilt first "I also want you
to promise me that when the battle is lost, that you will not
allow yourself to die uselessly.  Someone must live to tell
others of our great peoples and of the these evil creatures."
    This was not an easy thing to ask, their people never walked
away from a battle.  They had a strong tradition of winning or
dyeing, that is what they were doing here.  They had lost, but
they still lived.  Tradition and honor dictated that they had no
other course of action.
    "Take this sword" Commander Travois said "It was given to me
by my father and he his.  Its been in my family since the time
when it was our only weapon, when we truly lived and died by the
sword.  It was a time of true warriors and honorable foes.  Take
it now, in honor of my son who stands now, controlled forever by
those creatures."
    Sir Utlin stood for a moment, looking at the sword being
offered.  If he accepted it, he accepted the charge.  He was not
sure if he could accept it, it went against all that he had
lived by, every code, every oath.  Was it right for him to put
them aside when all around him would not?  Never before had one
day seemed so far away and unreachable.
    Utlin saluted again and said "What you ask of me, my
Commander, is the most difficult mission I could ever face."
With that he reached out and grasped the sword firmly.
    "I could have chosen none better for my second, you have my
leave."  Commander Travois said.  He then stood, saluted Sir
Utlin and watched him leave, red robe flowing out behind him.

              **********
              Beneath the pines, where lonely campfires gleam,
              In seas forlorn, amid the deserts drear,
              How I gladdened to that face of dream!
              And never, never had it seemed so dear.
              **********
                        "The Soldier of Fortune"
                             Robert Service


            to be continued..............


-----------




                   T H E   V I G I L A N T E

                              IVB

                        "Ring of Spears"
                          (continued)



              Must I now forever and forever go from you?
              Ah, yes I must...for if I do this thing,
              How can I look into your face again?
              Knowing you think me more than half a king
              I with my craven heart, my honour slain.
              ..........
                        "The Soldier of Fortune"
                              Robert Sevice


    Soon all carriers were blossoming an assortment of small
fighters.  The Vigilante had to pull further back to stay out of
the way of the growing swarm of small ships.
    "Sir," S'Erlet said "Current count of fighters is 1,238 and
growing."
    The Borg were currently visible only on high magnification
and holding warp 9.  Suddenly the Leader's ship glowed blue
around its gun ports.  It released two large beams of blue
light.  The beams continued long after they had disappeared into
the distance.
    The Vigilante was watching the ship and the Borg on a split
screen.  The beams had merged to one by the time they hit dead
center on the middle, left Borg cube.  The cube suffered no
obvious major damage, but its lights seemed to dim slightly and
some sparks erupted from the impact area.  All six cubes,
however, immediately dropped out of warp.
    "I think they just pissed them off." O'Malley whispered to
herself.
    "I think your right, Ensign" The Captain responded from
behind her.
    At warp 9.01, the fleet had to almost immediately drop out
of warp to keep from running into the Borg.  The fighters and
other ships leaped forward attacking all six cubes.  The
leader's ship had dropped out of warp as soon as it had fired.
It now approached at impulse speeds.
    The carriers stayed just out of standard Borg range allowing
their fighters to do the work for them.  The five undamaged
cubes started taking immediate tolls on the fleet.
    Each cube projected multiple tractor beams holding the
larger ships at a safe distance while their shields absorbed
what weapons that could be released on them.  The Borg then
initiated their cutting beams, one ship at a time.
    The fighters headed through the Borg's shields and fired
indiscriminately on the cubes.  The Borg's reaction was
immediate, they started firing energy charges into the swarms of
fighters.  The charges took out several of the fighters at a
time.
    "Sir," Norton said "I've got a message coming from one of
the Borg cubes."
    "Put it on the screen." Anthony responded.
    The screen changed to a scene of a bearded humanoid with
several Borg adaptations.  Sections of the mans hair and beard
were shaved to make room for an appliance.  Tubes lead from his
shoulders over his head connecting to the appliance.  His eye
that wasn't covered was bright red, like the man's they saw in
the message earlier.

    The voice was mechanical and sounded like several were
talking at the same time.  "The fighters are irrelevant." It
said  "You will all be assimilated like the rest of your people.
Resistance is futile."

    "Have we gotten any of the pilots yet?" Anthony asked.
    "No, Sir" Norton said "The Borg defenses against the
fighters are too quick, and the ships aren't well shielded we
have no way of knowing who to track.  When they're hit, they
explode immediately"
    "Tell them to keep an eye open, there might still be
somebody we can grab." Anthony looked back at the image on the
screen continuing to tell all how irrelevant and futile the
whole situation was.  "And get that off the screen."
    The on going battle reappeared.  One of the large ships that
had moved in on the cubes was beginning to break up.  The cube
had several tractor beams on it and was splitting it down the
middle.  So far, they hadn't seen any escape pods launched from
any of the ships.
    Then a new strategy became apparent, the fighters after
getting through the shields were able to blast holes in the Borg
ships.  They then flew into the ships.  The cube this seemed to
work best on was the one hit by the long range blast.  But
several others also appeared to have been entered by fighters.

.............

    By the time Sir Utlin had made his way to the launch deck,
his wing and many others had already launched and were engaging
the enemy.  His personal fighter was a modified (of course)
X1-90 single pilot attack craft.  It had dual warp blasters
mounted on the sides where the standard phaser cannons should
be.  There was a standard phaser cannon in the nose, taking the
place of survey equipment.  The survey equipment was meant for
peace time missions and war time surveillance missions, neither
of which Sir Utlin was involved in anymore.
    The craft was also fitted with experimental life support
equipment.  The equipment was said to extend life support time
indefinitely, but he'd never needed it.  As Sir Utlin waited for
the fighter to be prepared for launch it occurred to him that he
had no place to go if he did survive the battle.  His life
support may last indefinitely, but he only had limited food and
very limited room to 'live' in.  These things shouldn't concern
him at this point though, his first mission was to fight
valiantly in the battle.  If, in the end, he found that he was
still alive, he'd worry then.
    When the ship was placed on the launch line in front of him,
Sir Utlin placed Commander Travois' sword in the standard, but
never used, scabbard behind the seat.  He folded his cape and
also placed it behind the seat.  He then took the helmet off the
seat and put it on.   After he lifted himself into the cockpit
he connected the helmet's wires to the navigation and fire
control computers and secured the belts.  The straps pressed him
firmly into the custom fitted seat.  The g-suit he wore under
his uniform inflated to prevent high-g black outs.
    The launch sequence was projected into the face shield of
the helmet.  "Sir Utlin," came  the Voice from flight control
"You are cleared for launch." as soon as the voice ended, the
seat seemed to wrap around him.  The launch tube rushed at him
then suddenly turned to stars, black and mayhem.

.............

    The Vigilante had parked over-head looking down on the
action.  The Borg ships remained in their formation but the
damaged cube seemed to stray a bit.
    "Sir, I believe the lead ship is about to fire on the Borg
again.  I read the same power build up as before." Norton
reported.
    Soon the ships that were maneuverable broke from the attack
and away from the line of fire.
    "Keep us away from them." Tarva said as some of the swift
fighters headed in their direction.
    "Have any of the fighters come out of the cubes yet?"
Anthony asked.
    "I haven't read any exiting fighters" S'Erlet reported.
    As soon as the path was cleared, except for the two ships
still held by tractor beams, the Leader's ship fired again.
This time, it targeted the cube that seemed to have taken the
most damage from the fighters.  There wasn't even distance
enough for the two beams to appear to fully become one.  The
cube glowed bright blue as the energy from the beam dispersed
around its shields.
    As soon as the ship ceased fire, the fighters swooped back
in on the Borg.  This time, however, the fired on cube broke
formation and went after the leader's ship.  Apparently, after
firing the weapon, the leader's ship wasn't able to maneuver
quickly.
    A good third of the fighters broke off from the remaining
five cubes and attacked the one going after their leader.  The
four remaining maneuverable cubes seemed to take this as a cue
and spread out.  They stopped using the grab and cut technique
and started firing more energy charges.  The fighters and ships
quickly succumbed to the new method.  Even the carriers that had
stayed in the background were now targeted.
    The large carrier that had released the shuttle took several
hits in the side.  It had continued releasing fighters and had
even collected some damaged ones on the giant bottom door.  Now
it rocked from internal explosions as the fighters inside
ignited from chain reactions.

............

    When Sir Utlin launched from the Star Controller he had a
difficult time not being hit by any of the fighters.  He could
hear the constant chatter of the fighters from his command.  All
semblance of order or controlled attacks had disappeared.  The
Borg dealt with them in a very efficient manner, just destroy
anything that comes near.
    Before he had a chance to approach any of the cubes, he
heard the Star Watcher's warning of 'fire in the tube'.  He
didn't hesitate in following the other fighters pulling away
from the enemy.
    He thought that he could hear the shot, using the Star
Watcher at point blank, in the middle of battle, like this, was
unheard of.  When he swung around back toward the Borg he
expected to see only five ships.  Instead, he saw all six, only
this time one had broken formation and was going after the Star
Watcher.
    The Star Controller tried to divert the Cube but only
sustained damage as it passed.  Sir Utlin could see the his ship
rocking from exploding fighters and fuel.  It wouldn't be long
before Commander Travois made good on the Pledge of Following.
Many of the other fighters headed toward the Cube to protect
their leader.  Sir Utlin knew it was fruitless, they should
concentrate on the damaged ship.  Perhaps they could at least
destroy one.
    Diverting his course toward the damaged Cube, the last he
saw of the Star Controller was it lining up for its destiny.
"Good by my friends." he said aloud and accelerated to his own
destiny.

............

    The great carrier lumbered toward the cube attacking the
leader's ship.  As it approached, they could see that no escape
pods were being ejected.  The immense carrier, the pride of its
fleet, was dwarfed by the single cube.
    When the carrier was attached to by the tractor beam, Norton
looked up and said "She's powering up her warp engines."
    Before anybody could react, the carrier jumped to warp and
collided with the Borg ship.  The explosion rocked the Cube
causing most of one side to cave in and open to space.  They
could see debris flying from the opening.  Almost immediately,
the hole slowly started closing in.
    The leader's ship had taken sustained damage and didn't have
the power to pull away from the Cube while it was regenerating.
While the hole was still open, the fighters took the opportunity
to enter the ship.  Several small surface explosions could be
seen from the damaged caused by the fighters on the inside.
This was the first time fighters on the inside were obviously
doing something.
    The number of maneuverable ships had been greatly reduced.
Only five seemed in relatively good repair.  The rest were
either disabled like the leader's ship, or destroyed.
    The four remaining undamaged cubes strung out across the
battle area.  They began meticulously destroying all ships in
their path.  It was as if they had had enough of this game and
it was time to clean up.
    The Borg ship involved in the collision was only about two
thirds finished with its repair to the hole when it locked back
onto the leader's ship.  This time the cutting beam took obvious
chunks out of the haul.  As these pieces were absorbed into the
superstructure of the cube, the hole closed up a little more.
    The Borg's advancing destruction of the leader's ship was
evident, but still no escape pods were jettisoned.  Suddenly,
the Borg let go of the ship and moved away from it.  Just as the
Cube got some distance, the ship self destructed.
    Within a few more minutes, one of the remaining ships made
another suicide run on a cube that had grabbed it.  This time,
however, the Borg were ready for it and the ship exploded
harmlessly against the cube.
    The remaining ships and fighters took the same tactics, as
the Borg got a hold of them, they would implement some sort of
suicide maneuver.  Though valiant, none were successful.  The
Borg had learned from the first ship to do it and were prepared.

............

              **********
              No! No! my mind's made up. I gaze above,
              Into that sky insensate as a stone;
              Not for my creed, my country, but my Love
              Will I stand up and meet my death alone.
              Then though it be to utter dark I sink,
              The God that dwells in me is not denied;
              "Best" triumphs over "Beast" -and so I think
              Humanity itself is glorified....
              **********


    Sir Utlin flew wide around the other Cubes.  Through his
radio he could hear the reactions to the destruction of the Star
Controller.  The destruction also seemed to push four of the
remaining Cubes into action.  They fanned out and started
destroying everything in their path.
    One of the things he heard his comrades doing was flying
into the Cube the Star Controller had just rammed.  This sounded
like a good idea.  With his extra fire power he may be able to
open a hole big enough to get into the damaged cube.
    On approach, his sensors read no shielding from the Cube.  A
few other fighters were flying around the ship virtually
ignored.  They seemed to be indiscriminately firing on the
superstructure.
    He switched to a general scrambled frequency "Attention,
this is Red Wing Commander, what wing are you?" the ship to ship
signals had very limited range to keep down the confusion.
    "Go ahead, Red Wing Commander, this is Blue Wing, or at
least what remains of it."  Blue Wing was from Star Fire, a
small but highly decorated carrier, it was one of the first
destroyed.
    "Do you have any strategic targets on these things?" he
asked as he swooped over the massive ship.
    "No sir, not really, we've just been hitting anything that
looks important." returned the young voice.
    "Have they returned fire?" Utlin asked making a high-g turn
and flying back.
    "No Sir, We think Lord Dowe's guns shorted them out pretty
good.  They must be ignoring us to fix the damage."  Sir Utlin
couldn't tell which of the ships was talking to him since all of
them continued their strafing runs.
    "Well" he said "I think it's time we pay them a closer
visit."  Utlin said as he lined up for his run.
    "Sir, a couple of us went in, but we haven't heard from them
and we can't seem to make that much damage anymore."  The voice
came back.
    "I think I'll give it a try."  Sir Utlin said and powered up
all of his weapons.
    "Sir, if you open it, we'll follow you in."  the boy sounded
confident, confident that he was about to die.
    The ships stopped their normal runs and started gravitating
toward his position.  When their flight patterns seemed to be in
sync with his, he started his run.
    This time, instead of coming in parallel for the normal
strafing, he went straight at the ship.  His right index
fingered started pumping the trigger for the warp blasters.  The
fighter bucked every timed he fired its blasters.  He poured
full power to the front shield and continued to fire.  The
surface of the Cube disintegrated under the blasters.
    His scanner showed a large open area inside the cube about
30 finlars from the surface.  Debris had started flying out of
the hole from depressurization.  He continued to pump the warp
blasters causing explosions deeper into the hole.  He then
turned the phaser cannon onto automatic pulse, maybe it would
held chop up some of the debris.
    Just as he approached the opening, his first instinct was to
back off the throttle to hopefully navigate to the interior.
Instead, he punched the throttle up full and was pressed into
his seat from the acceleration.  He was tempted to hit the warp
engines but knew that was instant death.  He continued to pump
his warp blasters but all he saw were explosions and debris
hurling at him.  He let go with a primal scream as he flew into
the destruction.
    The promise to stay alive was the furthest thing from his
mind.
              **********
              "And now, my butchers, I embrace my fate.
              "Come! let my heart's blood slake the thirsty sod.
              "Curst be the life you offer! Glut your hate!
              "Strike, Strike, you dogs! I'll not deny my God!"
              **********

............

    Finally, the six cubes reformed and warped away.  The one
cube that had been struck originally seemed unable to maintain
the perfect formation.  The six, however, continued back on
their original course.  This time they held a much slower pace,
warp 8.6.
    Just before they warped away, Norton said "Sir, I read an
explosion on the damaged Borg ship."
    "On the screen." Anthony said.
    Norton put the six ship formation on the screen then zeroed
in on an area of the one cube that wasn't holding perfectly in
the formation.  On its surface were a series of explosions that
appeared to be initiated from the interior.  Finally, just as
the cubes jumped to warp, a lone, single seat fighter emerged
from the hole.
    The fighter emerged into a sea of debris.  Suddenly alone,
left behind by the ship it came from.  It limped slowly through
the devastation surveying for survivors that weren't there.
    Tarva turned to Anthony "Sir, I believe we have our only
survivor."
    Captain Anthony turned to Commander Norton "What's your
analysis of that ship?"
    Norton was already studying his tactical scanners. "Sir, I
read one life form, apparently uninjured.  The ship no longer
has warp capability, but has life-support."
    "Open hailing frequencies." Anthony said.
    "Hailing frequencies open." Norton returned.
    Anthony stood and looked at the fighter on the screen as if
he were talking directly to it "Attention fighter, this is
Captain Anthony of the United Star Ship Vigilante, do you read
me."
    There was a short pause then a voice came back "This is Red
Wing Commander, please state your position, I do not read you on
my scanners.  They could, however, be damaged."
    Anthony smiled, this was a pretty cool cat.  "I did not
state our position, but I do offer you our assistance."
    There was another pause "Your a bit late to be offering
assistance."
    "Does that mean you do not desire our assistance?"
    The small ship did a few turns and loops, obviously looking
for the source of this conversation. "If your really around
here, I would definitely appreciate your assistance."  He didn't
sound too committed.
    Anthony smiled "Okay." he said "Now, here's where your going
to have to trust us."
    "I don't like the sound of that."
    "Don't worry," Anthony said "have I ever lied to you."
    There was some nervous laughter in reply.
    "Now, what we would like you to do is shut down all power to
your weapons and engines." Anthony said very carefully.
    "And then what?" he was almost flip.
    "And then wait."  Anthony said then added "I must warn you
that if you power anything up, we'll be forced to interpret that
as a sign of aggression."
    "Is that all?"
    "That is all, do we have a deal?"  Anthony was beginning to
like this guy.
    "I don't seem to have much of a choice.  Powering off now."
The man still didn't seem too convinced.
    Norton looked up "He's powered down all main systems."
    "Okay" Anthony said "Tell Shuttle Bay Two to lock on to the
fighter with the tractor beam.  Have transporter room two stand
by, if he powers up, pull him out and destroy the ship."
    "Aye, Sir." Norton said as he reach to his comm switch.
    Anthony then added "Also, have security meet us in Shuttle
bay two."
    Norton grinned slightly and said stiffly "Of course, Sir."
    "Commander Tarva, Your with me." Anthony turned toward the
lifts with Tarva a step behind.

...........

    What was going on, were the Borg back? Was he dead and
talking to Lin'hrlar himself.  Was he just space happy and
hallucinating?  It was too soon for that.
    It didn't matter, with his warp drives out of commission, he
had no where to go.  He had enough supplies for a month but what
good would that do him at sub-light speeds?
    He breathed deeply whispered a short prayer to himself then
started shutting down his systems.  What ever was going to
happen he hoped it would happen soon.  How long should he wait
to power back up before they wouldn't take it as an act of
aggression.
    What if they just wanted him to power down so they could
attack him.  Some sort of pirates waiting to salvage what little
debris was left of the fleet.
    Suddenly his ship jerked, he almost reached up to power on
thinking he was being attacked, but hesitated.  There were no
explosions, there were no lights he wasn't under attack. The
ship was moving on its own.  This wasn't possible, unless
something was pulling.  He started looking around maybe he could
see something.
    The stars in front of him started looking blurry.  Some
seemed to be getting close too quickly.  The stars shimmered and
disappeared revealing a large dark gray ship.  He was extremely
close, his reflexes caused him to jerk the joy-stick hard to
port to avoid a collision.  It  didn't work, of course, since he
wasn't under his own power.
    He appeared to be heading directly toward the back of the
ship.  Four large, flatten, cylindrical, engines, spread out
from the body, two above him and two below.  The engines glowed
soft blue down the sides.
    Ahead of him the four engines swept away from a large
bulbous body.  The ship was smooth and symmetrical, there were
no gun turrets, or ports.  It was no wonder they wanted him to
power down, a lone fighter could reek untold damage on this
ship.
    There were three doors in the very back of the ship two
smaller ones side by side over a much larger one.  The door on
the right started opening and his craft was being pulled toward
it.
    "Well," he said to himself "that looks like my destination."
    Where the door had been, was replaced by a shimmering blue
force field.  His ship glided smoothly through the field and
into a well lit bay.
    There were two other ships in the bay, both looked like some
sort of transport one had star drives, the other did not.
Standing to the side were some people in baggy black uniforms,
must be this ships security.
    A couple appeared to be like himself, sons Lin'hrlar the
others were some creatures unlike anything he'd ever seen.  His
ship came to rest directly in front of the reception committee.
He pushed the canopy open button but kept an eye on the group
the whole time.
    One of the group stood out, he was wide shouldered with
non-alien features.  He had long hair like a High Commander, but
he was clean shaven, like a warrior.  He stood in the middle
flanked on either side by both dark skinned creatures and few
other non-aliens.  One thing he noted was that they all carried
side arms.  Another thing very strange occurred to him, some of
these creatures were apparently females.  What strange creatures
these were to not only bring females with them, but arm them
too.
    They continued to wait for him to conclude any business he
needed to, very courteous.  He disconnected his helmet and stood
up, then stepped down on to the ships built in ladder.  When he
was half way down, he removed his helmet and placed it on the
seat, then reached behind the seat took out his cape.  By the
time he jumped to the deck the red cape was flowing out behind
him.
    A dark skinned non-alien approached him and handed him two
small devices.  From the way he motioned it appeared that one
was to be place in his ear, and the other around his neck with
the disk on the front of his throat.
    It could be a trap, something so they could control him.
Sir Utlin hesitated, waiting for some kind of explanation.  He
also rested one hand comfortably near his battle blaster.
    Finally the man with the long gray black hair stepped
forward holding a small device in his hand.
    "Well come aboard the U.S.S. Vigilante." he said through the
device in his hand.  It was some sort of translator.  "I am
Captain Anthony, I believe we've already spoken."
    Sir Utlin snapped to attention and saluted, including a
slight bow of his head "I am Sir Utlin Robe'than, First Officer
of the Carrier Star Controller, and Commander of Red Wing
Tactical Fighter Squadron.  I am in your debt for your
hospitality, Captain."
    The Captain though obviously unfamiliar with the salute,
immediately returned it.  He then said through the box in his
hand "It would make communication much easier if you could use
the devices you were given."  He then indicated the objects Sir
Utlin still held in his right hand.  "They'll allow the computer
to translate automatically"
    Sir Utlin considered the devises carefully, they seemed
harmless.  He started with the piece for the ear.
    "A lot better then this contraption." the Captain said
apparently in Sir Utlin's own language.  What a marvelous
device.
    He then strapped the other piece around his neck, it fit
like a piece of jewelry.  "What is this piece suppose to do?" he
said.  The rest in the room smiled as if they recognized the
question, but he heard it in his own language still.
    "That device translates for the rest of us.  By
inconveniencing you slightly, the rest of the crew will not have
to wear the translators while you are with us." the Captain
said.
    "Now for the rest of the introductions."  The Captain
continued.  He indicated the short dark skinned female creature
standing next to him.  "This is my first officer Commander
Tarva."
    Sir Utlin looked at the creature, she almost looked normal
but her forehead rolled slightly and her hair started at about
the top of her head.  She looked like she was a cross between
the Children of Lin'hrlar and some of the even uglier creatures
standing about.  He considered 'her' for a moment then decided
that since she had been indicated as second in command he would
treat her as he would wish to be treated aboard the Star
Controller.
    He gave her his stiff salute and slight bow, the same as
he'd given the Captain, "Commander Tarva".
    She comfortably returned both, but didn't say anything.
    "If I may inquire," the Captain said "by what name are you
used to being addressed?"
    They had given him simple names, obviously how they
addressed one another.  He'd given them his full title, his own
people would know the proper salute, these people did not.
Their translator changed the words for them but didn't indicated
customs.
    "I am officially addressed as 'Sir Utlin'" he said formally.
    "Very good, Sir Utlin"  The Captain said as another creature
came in.
    He looked almost normal but he was completely bald, had
pointed ears and a very slight green complexion.  As the man
approached Captain Anthony indicated him and said "Sir Utlin,
this is Commander Norton, he is in charge of security on the
Vigilante."
    "Commander Norton." Sir Utlin said and repeated his salute.
    Norton retuned the salute without hesitation.  Then turned
to the Captain "Sir, if I may."
    The Captain looked slightly unsure then said "Of course."
    Commander Norton turned back to Sir Utlin "Sir, I'm going to
have to ask you for your side arm, for the time being."
    Utlin hesitated for a second then decided that they really
didn't have to ask.  He pulled it from his holster and handed it
Commander Norton, who took the weapon bowed slightly then handed
it to one of the creatures standing nearby.
    "Now," the Captain said "If you'll come with us we have much
to discuss before we can get you settled in."
    "I believe we do." Sir Utlin agreed and followed the group
out of the hanger.
    As they left, he noticed that technicians were circling his
fighter with scanning devices but appeared to be keeping a
respectful distance.  If this was a sign of how he was going to
be treated, it might not be too bad.
    They entered a nearby room with a long table at on end and
rows of chairs facing it.  It was some kind of seminar or
meeting room.
    Sir Utlin was ushered to one of the chairs then Captain
Anthony, Tarva, and Norton also took seats.  Two of the ugly,
ridged, dark skinned creatures took guard positions on either
side of the door.
    "To get started, perhaps I should tell you who and what we
are.  Perhaps I can answer some of your obvious questions before
asked." The Captain said.
    "That sounds like a good way to start." Utlin agreed.
    Before Anthony could begin a piping sound came out of the
ceiling. "Bridge to Captain Anthony." came a female voice.
    "Anthony here, go ahead"
    "Sir, we have the Borg back in scanner range"
    "Very good, maintain distance."
    "Aye, Sir." returned the voice then the speaker obviously
turned off.
    Utlin looked slightly alarmed "The Borg have returned?"
    "No" Anthony said "We jumped to warp to follow them as soon
as you were in the bay."
    "I didn't feel the acceleration." Utlin returned.
    The Captain smiled proudly "You rarely do."
    Captain Anthony then proceeded to tell Sir Utlin about the
Federation and their encounter with the Borg.  He also told him
about the development of the Vigilante to spy on them and gather
information.  Then finally about their presence during the
battle.
    This infuriated Sir Utlin. "You mean that you sat back and
watched the remains of my people get destroyed by these evil
creatures and did nothing?  How could you, what kind of
creatures are you?"
    The battle seemed to weigh heavily on the crew of the
Vigilante.  These allegations obviously disturbed them.
    "What would you have had us do?" Anthony asked coldly.
    "You could have helped us, you obviously have some sort of
weapons." Sir Utlin insisted.
    "Yes, we have weapons, very similar to what your ships had.
Do you think that in the end, we could have made a difference?"
Anthony was speaking very carefully.
    "You could have done something, maybe helped destroy one of
those things."  Sir Utlin knew now why they had taken his
blaster, they must have predicted his anger.
    Anthony sat back, obviously disturbed by the events.  "You
don't know how much this decision weighs on me and my staff.
All of us have been personally affected by the Borg."  Anthony
shook from some kind of memories.  "But we have a duty to our
own people.  They are depending on us to return with information
that they may be able to use to defeat the Borg once and for
all.
    "If we were to valiantly engage in a hopeless battle, then
we would have betrayed the whole Federation.  They are depending
on us to do our best to return with the intelligence they need."
Anthony looked at Sir Utlin carefully, hoping to see some sort
of understanding.
    Utlin sat back and considered Captain Anthony's argument, he
tried to put himself in their place.  As a warrior, it was tough
to understand sitting out such a battle.  But perhaps, they had
a point, to put ones own civilization over another dying one.
It was what he was doing, not caring about the needs of their
civilization.
    "I suppose," Utlin said slowly "I can understand the reasons
that would cause you to stay out of our battle." he hesitated
then continued "I can also understand the pain and helplessness
you and your warriors must have felt doing so."  With that said
Sir Utlin suddenly felt a closeness to these people and the
inner conflicts they must endure.  He prayed that Lin'hrlar
would look after them.
    "With that cleared up," Commander Tarva said "We must make
some decisions."
    "Such as?" Sir Utlin tried his best not to talk down to this
female creature.
    Captain Anthony spoke up before Tarva could answer "Sir
Utlin, I must excuse myself, there are other duties that I must
attend to."
    "I fully understand, Captain" Sir Utlin said and stood as
Anthony did.
    "I leave you in the very capable hands of Commander Tarva, I
know she will be able to help you find a proper place among us."
With that Captain Anthony turned and exited.  At the same time
Commander Norton excused himself and took the guards with him.
    Sir Utlin soon found himself alone with the creature who was
second in command of this ship.  He was very uneasy with the
thought of a Female on a war ship but a female alien in charge
of one would take some real getting used to.  He looked at her
as she took her seat across from him.  She seemed short even
compared to her comrades, but very confident.  There had to be a
reason she was second in command.
    After he took his seat she spoke again "As I said, we have
some decisions to make.  First we'd like to have permission to
examine and repair your fighter.  When we finally reach our
destination, you may wish to have use of it."
    "You mean you haven't examined it yet?" Sir Utlin sounded
slightly surprised.
    Tarva smiled "We've done all we can without touching it,
they have strict instructions to respect your property."
    "I have some personal property I'd like to retrieve before
your technicians start working on it." Utlin decided to see how
far he could push it.
    "Very good.  Now about what we're going to do with you.  I
figure there are several options you could chose from if you
wish."  Tarva said remaining very business like.
    "I get to chose my fate?" Sir Utlin asked surprised.
    "Of course, we do not want you among us if it is not where
you want to be.  That brings us to your first option, we could
repair your craft and send you on your way."
    Sir Utlin frowned at this thought.  There was literally no
place for him to go.
    "Now if you wish we could take you to the Borg and let you
fight your own battle, this is I guess very similar to the first
option."  Tarva was mentioning these options knowing full well
Sir Utlin probably wouldn't seriously consider them.
    "Do you have any less drastic options for me." he asked
giving her lead to continue.
    "We do not take observers on the Vigilante." Tarva said
"Therefore, if you chose to remain, you will have to join the
crew.  Our crew is made of a diverse number of different peoples
from different cultures, if you chose to join us, you will have
to accept that.  You will have to accept our mission and our
goals.  We will, however, try to work with you to find for you a
position worthy of your skills and experience.  Does this sound
acceptable?"
    "Just like that?" he asked "How do you know you can trust
me, that I won't work for my own agenda?"
    Tarva leaned forward, Sir Utlin could see a fire in the
creatures eyes that sent a chill down his spine.  "We will not
stand for any part of this crew not being part of the team.
There is no room out here to deal with infractions in any but
the harshest of manners."
    Sir Utlin had to keep himself from swallowing hard, perhaps
he would be better on his own.  "What if, in the future, I wish
to leave the Vigilante?"
    "As long as your departure would not adversely effect our
mission, we could not prevent you from tendering your
resignation."  Tarva said simply.
    "Can I have some time to think about it?" Sir Utlin asked.
Perhaps if he had sometime to get a better feel for what these
people were all about.
    "Of course, but we don't know when the Borg will get to
where their going.  So you may not have time to become a proper
member of the crew by the next emergency."
    "I'll just have to risk it."
    "Until then," Tarva said "Lets get you set up in your
quarters.
    "Very good." Sir Utlin said and stood with Commander Tarva.
    When they walked out of the room, the two guards that had
been in the room with them were waiting just out side the door.
The first place they went was to the shuttle bay.  Sir Utlin's
fighter was flanked by several guards who came to attention as
they approached.  Several techs continued to walk around the
craft with hand scanners.
    Sir Utlin climbed up to the cockpit and removed a few
things; first was a long straight sword from behind the seat,
the other was a pack of apparently personal gear.  He then
approached Commander Tarva who was talking with a large bearded
man.  Sir Utlin wore the sword in the seldom used loop on his
belt and carried the bag as he approached.
    "Sir Utlin," Commander Tarva said "this is Commander
Dolittel, he is our Chief Engineer and will in charge of the
repairs of your craft."
    Before Sir Utlin could properly salute Commander Dolittel
held out his hand and said "Welcome aboard."
    Not knowing the proper response, Sir Utlin held his hand in
reply.  Commander Dolittel took hold of his hand with a firm
grip and shook it saying "I can't wait to take a look at that
fighter of yours, don't worry, we can get it flying better than
new."
    "I hope you can." Sir Utlin said not knowing how to respond
to this man.
    "Now if you'll excuse me, with your permission, we'd like to
get to work."  Dolittel said after letting go of Utlin's hand.
    "Thank you." was all Sir Utlin could think to say.
    As Dolittel walked away, Utlin could see him motioning to
technicians and heading toward the fighter.  He then looked at
Tarva questioningly.
    "I must apologize for the informality of our Chief Engineer,
he is not a great military man, but he is a gifted engineer."
Tarva said, then headed toward a door.  "Now, lets see if we can
find proper quarters for you."

   Sir Utlin was assigned what was called junior officer's
quarters.  It had two rooms with two bunks in one of them.
Tarva explained that there were no singles available, but this
was the next best thing, since he would not have a room mate.
    Commander Tarva then took the time to show him the different
features of the room, including the 'replicator' and 'head'.
She showed him how to access the computer verbally to get a list
of foods and other things available through the replicator.  He
wasn't sure how it worked but was intrigued with the technology.
    Commander Tarva then took him on a tour of the ship,
including the very small bridge.  It would have been difficult
for him to believe a ship of this size could be run effectively
from such a small place, but it seemed to be working just fine.
He was also shown a shuttle bay they called the 'cavern'.  She
seemed quite proud of its size, but it paled in comparison with
the Star Controller.
    She also showed him several rooms she called transporters.
He wasn't quite clear about their function, but was sure he
would find out.
    He finally decided that of the functions shown him, he was
best suited for security or something they called the drop
ships.  He would have to look into them more closely.  They did
make it clear, however, that within their normal mission
parameters their was no place for his fighter.  Though it had
powerful weapons, it lacked other technology vital to
maintaining mission integrity.
    Tarva had assured him that unless somebody specifically
challenged him, he had access to the ship, within reason of
course.  He decided to visit a place of gathering Commander
Tarva had pointed out, some sort of cafeteria.  Tarva had even
suggested visiting the place on his own, to get a 'feel for the
crew'.
    He had sat in the place a short time when two non-alien
looking females approached him.  One he recognized from the
bridge, she had been introduced as a navigator the other was
unfamiliar.
    He stood as they approached "May we join you?" asked the one
with darker skin and straight black hair.  He found both
extremely attractive.
    "Of course," he looked at the red headed female "Ensign
O'Malley wasn't it?  But I don't believe we've been introduced."
he said to the other.
    She smiled "I'm Lieutenant Whitecloud, but you can call me
Anndrea." she held out her hand in the same way the engineer
had.
    This time he knew the gesture and gripped her hand and
shook.  The woman had an amazingly strong grip.
    Ensign O'Malley offered her hand and said "And please, off
duty, I'm Janice."
    As they sat down with him he decided that since they had
offered their personal names, it would be proper to offer his
too. "You may call me Ra'than" he said.
    He chatted with the two women quite a while and soon
discovered that they were roommates.  He was able to get a lot
of social information from them.  They told him about the
different species on the Vigilante.  They warned him about the
tension between the Klingons and the Kalonians, he promised he'd
watch what he said around them.  It didn't take long to realize
just what a diverse group this was and that he might actually
fit in.
    Soon they both had to excuse themselves, Ensign O'Malley had
to report for duty and Lieutenant Whitecloud had an appointment
in the Drop Team Training Room.
    "Would you like to join me?" Whitecloud asked as she stood
up.
    "What sort of training is being conducted at this time?" he
asked as they walked away from the table.
    "It's practice in hand to hand combat.  It may not be very
useful against the Borg, but it is still good for the mind and
body."  Whitecloud said.
    "And what are your duties, medical?"  They had discussed
many things but Lieutenant Whitecloud's position had never come
up.
    Whitecloud laughed, "Not exactly, I'll be leading the
exercises."
    They stopped in front of some crew quarters and Whitecloud
walked in.  Sir Utlin stayed outside.
    "Won't you come in," Whitecloud said "I've got to change
into my work-out clothes."
    Utlin hesitated for a second then stepped in.  He was just
in time to see Whitecloud disappear into the head with a bundle
of clothes.  The room had the first decorations he'd seen on the
ship.  Several paintings hung on one wall; one was of some
primitive people who looked vaguely like Whitecloud, the other
was of some kind of bird but it didn't look finished.
    "Do you like them?" Whitecloud said from right behind him.
    It surprised him because, as a bloodied warrior, he always
prided himself on being aware of what was going on around him.
"They are very intriguing." he finally said.
    "I apologize for the Eagle, I haven't had time to work on it
lately."  Whitecloud said.  She had changed into loose white
clothes that appeared to be made of the same material as the
uniforms.  "Shall we go?"
    "Yes, of course."
    As they walked down the hall Sir Utlin said still sounding
confused  "So your job is training the warriors?"
    "That's one of the duties I've taken on, but my official
designation is second in Command of the Drop Forces."
Whitecloud said trying not to brag.
    "I thought these Drop Forces were suppose to be elite
warriors, and a Female is second in command?" Sir Utlin said
finally unable to contain his shock.
    Whitecloud stopped and looked at Sir Utlin curiously "Is
there something about females in your culture you have failed to
mentioned?"
    Sir Utlin stiffened a bit "In my 'culture', we recognized
that there are certain roles for the males and females.  War was
not a role for females, neither was commanding warriors."
    Whitecloud looked at him and said "That's to bad, you
probably missed out on a lot of great talent by pre-defining the
roles of your society."  She then continued down the hall.  Sir
Utlin followed, his red cape flowing out behind him.
    When they approached the training room Whitecloud turned to
Sir Utlin.  "Would you like to join us for the workout?"
    "I don't think I am dressed properly." he said hoping to get
out of it.
    "Don't worry, we have changing facilities here."
    "ah....Great."

    The room was filled with an assortment creatures from the
Vigilante.  All were dressed in the similar white robes and were
extremely respectful of Sir Utlin and Lieutenant Whitecloud.  He
joined them for a grueling work out and then stood in for a
punching bag during the combat training.
    After an hour of humiliation at the hands these creatures he
finally admitted to himself that they were all skilled warriors
but protested "But this is a style of combat I have not been
trained in."
    Whitecloud looked at the him while the team fell silent, she
had barely broken a sweat.  "I heard that you carried a sword
with you." she said "Perhaps you have some proficiency with it?"
    "I've at least used one before." now he had her, though he
never had use for one in battle, he was recognized as one of the
best duelers in the fleet.
    Whitecloud turned and spoke to one of the Klingon creatures
who went to retrieve something from the supply room.  He
returned with two black poles with white handles, just longer
than an arm.  Whitecloud handed one to Sir Utlin, thick end
first.
    "These are a little contribution from the Klingon training
techniques.  The Federation doesn't have a tradition of using
'blades', however, the Klingon's do.  I felt that the
coordination developed through training with swords would help
in other areas of combat.  These devises are modified to be
harmless but deliver a slight electric shock on contact.  The
shock, however, does increase slightly with the force of impact.
Sir Utlin, are you game?"
    "Who shall be my opponent?"  Sir Utlin asked curiously.
    "Why me, of course."  Whitecloud returned.
    Sir Utlin almost declined he had never fought a woman before
and it didn't matter that she was second in command of such fine
warriors.  Finally, he decided that this was his new peer group
and it was time to become one of them.  "How do you turn it on?"
    Whitecloud turned hers on and took a casual on-guard stance.
The rest of the room gathered around and started cheering for
both.
    Sir Utlin took his standard stance which differed
considerably from hers.  He didn't know who should move first
but was answered by a sharp pain in his arm.  While he was
debating with himself, Whitecloud stepped forward, tapped his
arm and returned to her position.
    "Come on, wake up." she chided.
    The ensuing duel pitted the battle scarred veteran of
countless wars, Sir Utlin, against the merciless, Special Forces
warrior, Lieutenant Whitecloud.  When Whitecloud closed her
attacks Utlin could see the coldness in her eyes.  When he
gained the advantage, she never faltered she pushed a new
strategy.  He found that she could take and receive pain without
hesitation.
    At one point, they stood exchanging blows to the side, one
would take a full hit to the side then deliver one.  Pain surged
through him from the electric shock and the weight of the
weapon.  It was a test of endurance neither one would back down
from.  Sir Utlin didn't remember who broke the routine, but was
glad when it ended.
    Over an hour after they began, they knelt facing each other,
totally out of breath.  Sir Utlin could taste the blood drip
from his broken nose and pain surged from his throbbing side.
Whitecloud looked back at him with a wide smile, two different
shades of blood stained her workout clothes and a large welt had
started to rise on her cheek.  The room had filled with
spectators who watched in total silence.
    Sir Utlin surveyed the crowd, in the front of one group was
Commander Tarva standing in her formal at-ease position.  Seeing
the Commander, Sir Utlin struggled to his feet and faced her.
    "Have you made your decision yet?" Tarva asked.
    "Yes, Commander," Sir Utlin looked around "If they'll have
me."
    Tarva looked to Whitecloud who said "Welcome aboard." and
offered her hand.
    Sir Utlin grasped and shook it, then stepped back and gave
his own traditional salute.
    "Very good." Tarva said "Now we'll have to confer with
Lieutenant Golta and the Captain to assign a field commission
and position in the team.  Until then, Lieutenant Whitecloud
will issue, and train you on the equipment you'll be using."
    "Thank you Commander." Sir Utlin said.
    Tarva nodded then walked across the mat toward the door.
The crowd parted more then sufficiently to let her through
without slowing down.

    Sir Utlin sat stripped to the waist in an examination room
in the medical section.  Lieutenant Whitecloud was in an
adjoining room, probably getting the same treatment.  A large
bruise had formed on his right side from just under his arm to
just above his thighs.  There were a number of other bruises and
cuts over his body.
    "What the hell were you doing sparring with Lieutenant
Whitecloud?" The medic asked as he started to work.
    Sir Utlin looked at the man, he looked like a seasoned
warrior, what was he doing working as a medic.  "Is there a
problem?"
    The man ran a scanner done the bruised side "It's just that
most people know better than to fight with the Lieutenant."
    "Why is that?"
    The man quieted down a bit and said "I worked on the ship
that she was first assigned to, after she left Special Forces.
She kept us very busy, most incidents, however, were never
reported.  The guys she fought with were mostly too embarrassed
that such an attractive woman had bettered them in a fight.  It
was lucky for her, she would have been thrown out a lot sooner
than she was."
    "What kind of incidents?" Sir Utlin normally didn't care for
any kind gossip but he found Lieutenant Whitecloud extremely
intriguing.
    The man ran some kind of bone knitter over the broken ribs.
"It's just that she likes to hurt people.  Well I guess it's
better than killing them like she used to."
    Sir Utlin looked at the man unbelieving.
    "Its true, one of the reasons she had to leave Special
Forces was that the underworld had a price on her head.  She
couldn't be effective as an undercover agent with her face
plastered all over the place."  The medic then turned to mending
the broken nose.
    "She had a price on her head? How did that happen?"
    "It's rumored that when she was undercover, she would sooner
kill someone than fight with 'em.  You kill enough of a crime
lords best people, he gets annoyed."
    "The more I hear about the Lieutenant the more I like her."
Utlin said with a smile.
    "Well I'm glad to hear that, but if your going to keep
training with her, we'll be seeing you again."  The medic said
as he started working on the large bruise.

-----------

    Lieutenant Utlin stood in the back of the drop ship, his
back against the stern bulk head.  The troop door lay open next
to him.  He held the phaser pointed to the roof and waited.  He
listened for the  go signal from the receiver in his ear.  The
darkness around him was complete but the goggles he wore gave
everything an eerie off color glow.  The sound of phaser blasts
told him the action was approaching his position.
    Utlin thought back on the past weeks; the Vigilante kept up
its relentless warp nine pursuit of the Borg; and he learned.
He learned to speak Federation 'Standard', he learned to work
with all of the creatures on this ship, and he learned his new
job.
    They were troubled by where to place him in the Drop Team
structure.  At first they thought he would actually be best
suited for Drop Ship pilot, but he was a fighter, not just a
pilot.  He best fit in with the ground troops, the real front
line warriors.
    His field commission was a tricky thing, he was obviously an
experienced warrior and leader.  They felt like he deserved to
be highly placed.  There were, however, many on the teams who
had worked hard for their positions.  It would be difficult to
suddenly have them answering to someone who, until just weeks
ago, hadn't ever heard of Star Fleet or The United Federation of
Planets.
    They gave him the rank of lieutenant(junior grade).  At
first he thought it was much below his naturally born position,
but birth-right seemed to hold little importance to these
creatures.  He would have to earn further promotions and
importance.  This couldn't be too difficult in an organization
that allowed so many females to rise to such importance.
    He heard the signal as the team approached the ship, it was
time to give cover so they could get to safety.  He leaned out
low, looking for his comrades. They were coming in from the
right, phaser blasts following them.  He stepped out and fired
at the sources of the blasts.  When the last of the team was
aboard, he turned and followed him them in.  A sharp pain
exploded in his left arm and side causing him to drop the phaser
and throwing him across the ship.
    When he came to, one of the Klingon creatures was looking
down at him.  "You'll do better next time,..Sir." it said
gruffly.
    These live fire exercises must have been Whitecloud's idea.

-----------

    Four weeks after beginning their pursuit, Tarva was awakened
by the yellow alert.  She heard Lieutenant S'Erlet saying
"Command to the Bridge."
    When Tarva got to the bridge Captain Anthony was just
arriving on the other lift.  Commander Norton was already in his
chair and S'Erlet was busy at his station.  Ensign O'Malley sat
staring at the image on the screen.
    It was a single Borg cube, obviously at an extreme distance,
but it was just one cube.  It was also obvious that they had
dropped out of warp.
    Tarva looked at the cube "What happened to the other five?"
    Ensign O'Malley turned and looked back at Commander Norton.
O'Malley had gone ghost white.
    The Captain looked at Norton, "Well, what happened to the
other five?"
    Norton looked up at Captain Anthony "Sir, all six Borg ships
entered this one."

              **********
              I saw the spears that seemed a-leap to slay,
              All quiver earthward at the headman's nod;
              And in a daze of dream I heard him say:
              "Go, set him free who serves so well his God!"
                        "The Soldier of Fortune"
                            Robert W. Service
              **********

                                  to be continued............


-------



                   T H E   V I G I L A N T E

                               VA

                           "Outpost"


Since all that is was ever bound to be;
Since grim eternal laws our Being bind;
And both the riddle and the answer find,
And both the carnage and the calm decree;
Since plain within the Book of Destiny
Is written all the journey of mankind
Inexorably to the end; since blind
And Mortal puppets playing parts are we:
......
              "Faith"
         Robert W. Service





    Captain Anthony looked at the Borg Cube on the screen, it
looked like all the others.  Scanners, however, indicated that
this one was bigger, much bigger.
    "What do we have?" Tarva asked.
    "It appears to be a Borg space station." S'Erlet
volunteered.
    "Perhaps, it's their home." O'Malley suggested
optimistically.
    "What's your Analysis." Captain Anthony said to the bridge
crew.
    "Sir, I estimate that this cube is 2 million times the
volume of a standard Borg ship." S'Erlet reported.
    Captain Anthony whistled in appreciation of the size.  "What
kind of scans are they emitting, is there any sign they may be
able to see us?"
    "Negative, Sir." Commander Norton said "They are emitting
standard Borg signals."
    "Okay, keep a close watch on all activity, I don't want one
of those cubes running into us."
    "Aye, Sir." O'Malley and S'Erlet said in unison.
    Anthony then turned back to Commander Norton "Let's go to
complete battle stations, repost all guards, and have away teams
ready to scramble from transporters and drop ships.  I want
primary teams, again, to be prepared with out the armor, lets
keep our technology a secret as long as possible."
    Norton stood saying "Aye, Sir." then exited the bridge.
    Anthony looked at Tarva "What do you think?" then back at
the cube on the screen.
    "We're going in, aren't we?" Tarva said with a half smile.
    "That's what we've been training to do." Anthony responded
then sat down in his chair.  He leaned back and clasped his
hands across his chest.
    Tarva sat on the edge of her chair, turned to look at the
Captain.  "When?"
    The Captain looked at his First Officer "I know, we have to
study it, get an idea what it really is and so on, but we'll go
in, ......we will go in."
    "Just try not rushing it, sir." Tarva said quietly "We've
got time."
    Anthony looked up at his navigator "Ensign O'Malley, set a
course to take a closer look, standard orbit."
    "Aye, sir" O'Malley responded "Plotted and laid in."
    "Engage." Anthony said.
    "Aye, Sir." the Helmsman returned.
    The Vigilante headed toward the Borg cube.  They quickly
started backing off the magnification to keep it on the screen.
Once they were close enough to get a good look without
magnification, they cut the impulse engines and went solely with
maneuvering thrusters.  It was the same kind of technique they
used for orbiting a star base.
    "Sir," S'Erlet said "Every indication from the object is
that it is not a ship.  It appears to have stabilizers only,
there is no means of propulsion evident."
    "What about the sub-space 'Borg Link' that the Enterprise
logged, what kind of patterns are there?" Anthony asked.
    "I've started the analysis but it will take some time before
any conclusions can be made." S'Erlet said.
    "Very good, but I want you to take any technicians you need
to complete the analysis quickly." Anthony said.
    "Sir," S'Erlet looked up from his console "I may be able to
do a more complete analysis with facilities in engineering."
    "Dismissed." Anthony then turned to Tarva "Commander I'd
like you to be in charge of mapping the cube.  We need to know
where the entrances are and other vital areas.
    "Aye, Sir" Tarva said "I'll get right on it."  She then
started contacting the survey specialists from the Drop Teams.

-----------

    Lieutenant Utlin stood in his armor looking out over the
'Cavern' below him.  It didn't come near the majesty of The Star
Controller but from this distance it did seem quite far down.
    "When ever your ready, Lieutenant." came Whitecloud's voice
over the intercom.
    He only had to do one thing, and that was step off the
platform.  If the suit worked, it would automatically fire its
rockets and lower him safely to the ground.  If it didn't work,
and he was lucky, he wouldn't spend too much time with the
medics this afternoon.  He was used to being in control, if the
rockets were suppose to fire, he wanted to fire them.  A
computer deciding to turn something on didn't sit well with him,
he wanted the control.
    "Trust the technology." he whispered to himself and stepped
of the ledge.
    He could immediately feel the suit vibrate slightly and stop
his decent.  He soon landed gently on the deck.  The suits
weren't made for flying about in a gravity situation but would
safely lower the occupant.  In zero gravity, however, they told
him, that they did have maneuverability.
    Utlin looked about, the team he was training with waited for
him.  Since Commander Dolittel retrieved the flight recorders
and cameras from the fighter they held him in much higher esteem
as a warrior.  They did, however, find it amusing that he seemed
scared of heights.  It wasn't that he was afraid of heights, he
just didn't trust alien technology.  Put him in his fighter, and
they'd see fearlessness.
    Lieutenant Whitecloud met Utlin in the suit room.  "We've
found a Borg outpost."
    "What?" Lieutenant Utlin had just gotten into his uniform.
He had switched to ship's standard, it was only proper.  They
did tell him that for formal occasions Star Fleet allowed
traditional, cultural dress.  There, however, would be very few
formal gatherings on the Vigilante in the near future.
    "The Borg ships all entered a much larger Borg Cube which
appears to be stationary."  Whitecloud said in obvious
excitement.
    "Is there some way we can get a look at it?" Utlin said in
total fascination.
    "Of course." Whitecloud said "It's on the view screen in the
meeting room right now."
    The meeting room was crowed with drop team personnel.  The
Borg cube was prominently on the screen.  When they walked in
Whitecloud spoke up.  "Okay, the Captain has ordered us to
prepare for deployment."
    There was a resounding cheer from the gathering.
"Lieutenant Golta has ordered that teams five and six remain on
call and suited.  Teams one and two are to be prepared in class
1 mission uniforms.  That's why you are here, five and six are
already on station in Shuttle bay three waiting for orders to
board and deploy.  We are to suit for deployment and await here
for orders."
    As second in command of drop teams, it was Whitecloud's
honor to lead the most likely team for deployment.  Lieutenant
Utlin had been assigned to Whitecloud's team until his training
was complete.

    Class one mission uniforms were the standard ship uniform
with gear added.  The teams sat in the rough duty chairs in the
meeting room.  There were 32 in all, two teams of 16.
    Each wore their standard uniform with a black 'mission'
helmet added.  The helmets included face shields with tactical
'heads up' displays and built-in communicators.  The extra
equipment included, technical gear for mapping and surveying.
Half carried analytical tricorders, the others carried 'extra'
fire power.  All carried their new larger phasers.  These
phasers reminded Lieutenant Utlin of his own battle blaster,
which now hung like a trophy in his quarters.
    As soon as the Captain wanted to see if the Borg reacted to
them, he'd send this group in.  He wouldn't use the suited
warriors unless he had to, he wanted to guard the technology of
the suits as long as possible.

    After five hours the Captain ordered a stand-down and the
drop teams off full readiness.

-----------

    After stand down, Lieutenant Utlin went down to the shuttle
bay to inspect his fighter.  A week after he had arrived, he was
summoned to a meeting with Commander Dolittel and the Captain.
    They met in the shuttle bay to discuss the future of the
fighter.  At the time, it lay in pieces around the bay.  Its
stripped frame was barely recognizable.  Commander Dolittel
stood over one of the star drives conducting some form of tests.
    Dolittel looked up as Utlin approached "Hello, Lieutenant."
he said pleasantly "How are you to day."
    "Commander, what have you done to my fighter?" Utlin said in
shock.
    "The technology used in your fighter is unfamiliar."
Dolittel said "My technicians were unable to make sufficient
progress on the repairs, so I've been forced to do the job
personally."
    Utlin couldn't say a word, he did not believe that the
damage to the ship had been this severe.
    Dolittel continued to talk as he worked "I've spent every
spare minute I've had since your arrival to learn your systems."
He looked at the mess around him "To do that, I've had to do a
little dissecting, but don't worry, everything I've taken apart
has been meticulously documented."
    Dolittel looked over Utlin's shoulders "Ah, here's the
Captain now."
    Utlin instinctively came to stiff attention and had to force
himself not to give his traditional salute, those days were
over. "Captain, Sir" he said in greeting.
    Anthony looked at the debris scattered through out the bay
"I hope you'll have this cleaned up before we need this bay
again."  he said with a smile.
    "Yes, Sir." Dolittel answered.
    "What's the status with the fighter?" Anthony said as he
started a walk around.
    "Sir, I've just finished repairs on the warp drives, and am
currently running systems checks.  By combining our two
technologies, this ship should be able to maintain warp 9 for an
extended period of time.  The ship seems to have been
retro-fitted with some extremely powerful blasters that
integrate warp technology."
    Anthony looked at Utlin, apparently for an explanation.
    Utlin smiled proudly "A friend of mine designed them based
on the technology used by Lord Dowe's cannons."
    "They will make an excellent thesis for my next submission
to Star Fleet Research and Development." Dolittel said with a
smile then said  "This ship, however, must have bucked like a
son of bee every time you fired the things."
    Utlin wasn't sure of the exact reference but understood the
meaning "That is why they weren't considered for standard
equipment.  If I wasn't securely strapped in, I'd be thrown
against the canopy every time I used them.  They also tended to
knock the ship off course."
    Dolittel smiled "With your's and the Captain's permission I
can fix that.  A simple inertial dampening field should do the
trick.  I can tie it directly to the firing mechanism so there
won't be any lag.  You'll only feel a slight vibration when you
fire. "
    Utlin looked at the Captain for his reaction "Do what ever
you wish, as long as your other duties are not neglected.  Just
remember, that unless Lieutenant Utlin relinquishes owner ship
claims to the ship, only use standard Star Fleet technology."
The Captain then dismissed himself.
    "What does that mean?" Utlin asked.
    Dolittel looked at the debris around them "That means that I
can upgrade your phaser, your shields and other systems using
commonly available technology.  If you want me to cover the ship
with the same composite material used for the Vigilante's hull
and include cloaking, you'd have to agree to the fighter
becoming a permanent part of the Vigilante's resources."
    "And if I don't?"
    "Then I'll fix it up, close it up and pack it away until we
get back to the Federation."

    It had been a tough decision, if he had given it up, they
would have assigned it to him, but it wouldn't have been his.
If he kept it, he wouldn't be able to fly it again until they
finished their mission and returned to the Federation.
Everybody on board knew that they may never return.  Now as he
stood looking at the ship he was glad he made the decision he
had.
    The fighter stood in the middle of the bay looking better
than it had the day it was delivered.  The paint was bright
white, all of the old patches were gone, replaced by new metal.
The red stripe down the nose was bright and crisp like it was
when he had painted it after arrival on the Star Controller.  It
was a fighter to be proud of.
    Lieutenant Utlin watched as hoists were fitted to the ship
and it was hauled away to storage.  It seemed as though the
final page on that chapter in his life was finally being turned.

He knew though, that if they survived, he would once again have
the freedom it offered.


-----------

    The complete command team sat in the Command Room off the
bridge.  Golta and Kartang sat at opposite ends of the table
with  Captain Anthony, Commander Norton, Commander Dolittel and
Lieutenant S'Erlet between them.  Commander Tarva stood at the
head of the room to give her presentation.  On the screen was a
full picture of the Borg 'outpost'.
    Tarva looked at the gathering "We have finished the
preliminary survey of the structure.  There appears to be a
primary entrance to it here."  A large portion of the cube was
highlighted near the bottom of the top half of the cube.
    "This is the entrance the ships we were following entered.
There are other apparent entrances but the structure appears to
be built around this point."  She then pushed another button and
a rotating, graphic depiction of the cube appeared next to the
current picture.
    "We have logged fifty existing 'standard' Borg ships docked
to the outside of the station.  There are also apparent 'niches'
for two hundred more ships."  The displays had zeroed in on a
docked Borg cube.  "We can only deduce that this is a major Borg
center."
    Anthony looked up "Commander, is there any indication if
this is the Borg home?"
    "I'll let Lieutenant S'Erlet answer that." Tarva said then
nodded to S'Erlet.
    S'Erlet stood "Thank you Commander.  I have been studying
the patterns of the 'Borg Link' since we arrived here.  It is
apparent that there are three major sub-space carriers
emanating from this station.  We, however, are unable to
determine the purpose of these signals but are continuing
studies.  My best hypothesis is that these carriers connect
similar Borg stations."
    "Do you have any proof of this theory?" Anthony asked.
    "No, Sir." S'Erlet said "What we do have, is that this is
the first major Borg installation encountered.  It is emitting
unique signals to specific locations.  These signals are not
going to standard ships, therefore, they must be going to
similar installations.  I do not believe that this is the Borg
'home' because their home must be a planet.  There isn't even a
star system near by.  If this is the center of the Borg empire,
then they have abandoned their home planet."
    "I concur." the Captain said "We must, however, explore this
facility to determine its place in the hierarchy."
    Golta and Kartang grunted their approval of 'exploration'.
    Anthony turned to Commander Norton "Commander, I'd like you,
Golta and Kartang to work with Commander Tarva and Lieutenant
S'Erlet to develop a plan to systematically explore this
structure.  Find specific locations to target such as computer
centers.  I want a plan to explore the important areas
efficiently.
    "In order to do this, we're going need a much closer look,
so we're taking the Vigilante into the station.  Commander
Dolittel,  we'll need all systems in top order.  Commander
Norton, I'll want all guards reposted and all weapons systems
ready for battle.  Before we send in large parties, we'll send
in a couple teams just to get an idea of how they'll react to
us."
    Anthony looked around the room "Any questions."
    "How long before we go in?" Norton asked.
    "We'll begin the approach as soon as this meeting is over."
Anthony sat back in his chair, very relaxed "Anything else."

    The Vigilante was dwarfed by the Borg station.  They entered
the opening along a bottom corner, great pipes and conduits
stretched out beneath them.  Above them, more cubes were docked
along the walls.  Further into the station, the top half opened
up revealing that it was mostly hollow.
    The Vigilante was brought about and faced back toward the
opening.  Captain Anthony decided to survey the interior before
making another move.
    The six cubes they'd been following were soon spotted docked
together above them.

    "There are two areas we want to get a closer look at."
Anthony was saying to Commander Norton.  "We need to study what
they do with the remains of a civilization.  I'd also like to
find out what is in the bottom half of this thing.  There is no
exterior opening, it ought to be interesting."
    "So the first teams should be deployed in the area of the
docked cubes so we can trace what the do with the cargo."
Norton said.
    "Correct." Anthony stared at the display of the cubes
"Another team should be sent below to chart that area."
    "Very good, Captain."  Norton transferred his phaser from
its holder on his chair to his holster "We'll begin making
plans."

    The first step away from the Vigilante was a drop ship
flight to the upper reaches of the docking bay.  The drop ship
being used, was the same one originally retrofitted with extra
scanning gear.  Equipment had been added in the troop area to
extend its scanner capabilities.  Commander Dolittel had
designed six operator stations to be added to the ship to expand
its ability to run detailed passive and active scans.  They had
the ability to map every nut and bolt within their scan range if
they wanted to.
    Drop Ship Seven floated up through the expanses of the Borg
structure.  Around it the cavern was totally still, if they
hadn't seen the cubes enter, they would have thought the station
abandoned.  There were none of the support or repair craft so
common in any Federation space dock.
    Upon the return of Drop Ship Seven, plans for the first two
away missions were finalized.  Team one with Whitecloud and
Utlin, was chosen to explore the interior while team two would
examine the activity dealing with the returned Cubes.
Lieutenant Utlin had requested to be assigned to team two but it
was decided that his connection to the subject may jeopardize
his objectivity.
    The first incursions into the station would remain small.
Even though the Borg had ignored the Enterprise's away teams in
the past, they had been aware of the Enterprise.  It was not
known how they would react to intruders from an unknown source.

-----------

    Drop Team One appeared in what scanners had indicated as an
access area just below the surface the dock area.  The team had
their class one mission uniforms.  Each member had a locator
implant for quick retrieval.  The implants had originally been
designed for the teams during use of the mission armor.  After
the incident with the Delphi, all away team members had been
implanted.
    The sixteen appeared with drawn weapons in full cover
formation.  They faced in all directions with the ones in front
squatting low so those behind had clear fire over them.
    The tunnel was 200 meters wide, had rounded sides and was
ribbed from the joining of sections.  The top and bottom were
flat and smooth.  Many scratches and gouges led up and down the
faded green passage.  The tunnel reached into the distance in
one direction but obviously opened on to an area several hundred
meters away.
    Lieutenant Whitecloud flipped open her visor and looked
around as several scientific members began taking scanner
readings. "They put us down in an obscure location so we would
have some time to get our bearings."  She looked at the
tricorder users.  "Is there any reaction to us yet?"
    "Nothing obvious, Sir." said a medium built dark skinned
human.
    "Team One leader to home." Whitecloud said to her mike.
    "Team One, this is home, go ahead." Came Golta's rough
voice.
    "Beginning mission status check." Whitecloud said.
    There was a slight pause as each team member coordinated
with control on the Vigilante.  They each made voice and visual
tests then confirmed transponder coordinates.  Each member had a
camera built into their mission helmets and transmitted
continual visual and related audio.  The audio was not team
member chatter but from a mike built into the helmets like the
camera.
    "Okay" Whitecloud said after the tests were completed
"Spread out and lets head to the opening."
    The team separated into pairs and started down the tunnel,
leaving foot prints in the thin layer of dust that covered the
deck.  One member of each pair proceeded with drawn weapon only,
the other also took readings with their tricorder.  They allowed
several meters between each pair for safety of the group.  They
would all randomly turn to check their flank.
    The tunnel opened in to a large storage facility.  Piles of
large beams towered above team.  Beyond, they could faintly hear
the hum of machinery that brought a strong acrid odor with it.
    "What are they for." Whitecloud asked.
    "Unknown." replied one of the technicians.
    Whitecloud then used a quick hand signal telling the team to
spread out though the area.  In the middle of the room, one of
the pairs found a control panel on a raised pad.  Whitecloud
quickly found her way to the area.
    Two other pairs were already on the scene and two techs
stood on the two meter high pedestal, looking at a control
panel.  She could hear inspection instructions coming from the
Vigilante to the technicians.
    Whitecloud turned to Lieutenant Utlin who was with her,
phaser in his left hand and tricorder in his right.  "Stay here,
keep an eye out, we may draw their attention."
    "Agreed." Utlin said and put his tricorder in its holster.
    Whitecloud holstered her phaser and climbed the flat U
shaped rungs on the pedestal to the control panel.  The panel
stood at the top of the pedestal without any railing around it.
It was a single panel on a thick stem, it was dark gray, almost
black with many buttons and display screens on it.  The pedestal
and panel were covered with a thick layer of dust and the panel
was dark.
    "What ever it was used for, it's not used any more."
Whitecloud said.
    "Perhaps we can use it to access their computer system."
Lieutenant Utlin suggested from below.
    "To access their computer system, is to access them."
Whitecloud returned.
    "Perhaps that is why this panel is not used." said one of
the techs.  "If they have direct computer interface, they would
no longer need this kind of individual control over a function."
    "Of course," Whitecloud said looking out at the stock around
them.  "they don't use this kind of control now, but there had
to have been a time when they did."
    "Well, at least it gives us some kind of idea how old this
station is."  Tarva said over the radio.  "Do not try to
activate the panel.  Leave one pair to study and record it and
continue survey."
    "Aye, Sir." Whitecloud said and pointed to one tech who
would remain on the pedestal, her and the other climbed back
down to the deck.  "Continue survey to the far side, toward the
machinery."
    They split up again and continued to head toward the heat
and noise at the far side of the storage room.  The temperature
rose slowly and the noise and smell also increased.
    When the opening to the next room came into sight, those
that had their face shields up had to lower them.  The bright
light coming from the room was blinding without the protection
of the tinted shields.  The opening towered above the team and
dry heat blasted out.  The team could not get closer then 100
meters from the opening, and even then, they felt like they
would be burned.
    "What is it." Whitecloud asked above the din.
    "It's a foundry." replied one of the technicians.
    They then looked back at the stacks of beams they had been
walking through for the past hour.  "This must be some kind of
repair facility." Lieutenant Utlin said.
    "Repair or Construction." Whitecloud corrected.
    "Perhaps." Utlin agreed.
    "We need to get in there and get a closer look at what
they're doing."  Whitecloud said.
    "It sounds like a job for the armored pressure suits." Utlin
said.
    "That it is, that it is, my friend." Whitecloud responded.
    "What do we do until we can return with them?" Utlin asked.
    "We'll check the length of the room, perhaps we can find
another way down to the next level."  Whitecloud said.
    Lieutenant Utlin used hand signals to direct the team on a
course parallel to opening.  They continued scouting the area
staying just out of the worst effects of the opening.  Skirting
around and under the stacks of giant beams they soon found
another, much smaller opening out of the store room.
    The dust from the access tunnel was mostly absent from the
store room but was again apparent in the new access.  The access
was an apparent elevator shaft.  The channel seemed to reach
indefinitely above and below them.  Next to the shaft was
another control panel, similar to the one they had found in the
middle of the room.
    "What do we do now?" One of the techs asked.
    "Well," Whitecloud said "we could continue to be afraid of
revealing ourselves by experimenting with these panels we keep
finding, or we could see what happens."
    She then signaled the Vigilante "Team one leader to home,
request permission to experiment with current control panel."
    Unexpectedly Captain Anthony's voice came over the intercom
"Team leader, you are authorized to attempted to access all
computer terminals you encounter.  This mission is to gather
knowledge and your current mission is to see how their going to
react to us.  Don't be afraid to push buttons."
    "Aye, thank you, Sir." Whitecloud said with a smile.
    "Home out." Anthony said and signaled off.
    Whitecloud immediately signaled one of the techs toward the
panel.  A skinny woman slightly shorter than Whitecloud
approached.  She began a close scan of the panel with her
tricorder.  "Sir," She said "It appears that there is power to
this panel, we should be able to get a response from it."
    "Very good," Whitecloud said "make it so." She always wanted
to say that.
    The tech started with a couple of larger buttons but didn't
seem to get any response.  She then saw what looked like a
scanner just above the panel, after placing her hand over the
scanner, the panel lit up.  She then pushed the largest button
on the panel and waited for a second for some kind of response.
A yellow light lit up on the top of the panel and movement could
be heard coming from the shaft.
    "You did something, Ensign." Lieutenant Utlin said.
    Soon something rattled in the shaft and a large, open air
grate elevator appeared.  There were no railings, just a flat,
dust covered grate and a glowing control panel sticking up from
a pedestal.
    "Is it safe?" one of the techs asked.
    "Who wants to go first?" Whitecloud asked with a grin.
    Lieutenant Utlin stepped forward "I'm game."
    "Home, be ready to transport Lieutenant Utlin on his
signal." Whitecloud said before Utlin started testing the grate.
    He started by prodding it with his foot.  Though the
tricorders said it was stable, they had a tendency to
misdiagnose where the Borg were concerned.  He then walked
across the grate to the control pad.
    "Which way, up or down?" Utlin said while studying the
controls.
    "Down, of course." Whitecloud said.
    "Okay." Utlin pushed a button on the pad and was thrown to
the grate as the elevator accelerated upwards.  "By the cape of
Lin'hrlar, I think I pushed the wrong button." he screamed as
the elevator flew up the shaft.
    "Do you request retrieval?" came a voice from the 'ship to
shore' intercom.
    "Negative, lets see where I'm going first, but stand by." he
said loudly though he didn't have to.
    The elevator stopped at the first opening it came to,
hundreds of meters up.  The door revealed the first Borg they'd
encountered.  There were narrow passageways crowed with the
mechanical lumbering Borg.
    Most seemed to be in their regeneration stations but others
occasionally stepped away and made adjustments to nearby
equipment.  The passages weren't regular, they flowed
organically in and around equipment.  An obvious contradiction
from their precedence of meticulous regularity and geometric
precision.
    Utlin pulled out his tricorder and began doing scans of the
area.  He really didn't know what he was scanning, that was for
the techs to analyze later.  He wanted to explore the new area,
they'd finally found the Borg, but he was alone and the team was
waiting for him.  He would be back though.
    Utlin walked over to the pedestal and leaned his helmet
camera towards it and lifted his visor.  "Well, Home, do you
have any suggestions for my next trick?"
    "The button you pushed the first time was the oval towards
the top of the panel." came a voice over the communicator.
    "That's correct." Utlin was impressed with the astute
observation.
    "We suggest the oval at the bottom half of the panel."
returned the voice.
    "Sounds good to me." Utlin said and reached for the panel.
    "Lieutenant, Sir," came the voice quickly "We would also
suggest that you secure yourself to the elevator before pressing
the button."
    It was too late, the elevator dropped away from under
Utlin's feet as soon as he pushed the button.  Lieutenant Utlin
felt as if he were flying for a second, before the elevator
shaft shifted into the Vigilante's transporter room.  The
transporter pad came up and smacked him in the face.  Laying on
the transporter pad with blood gushing from his nose, he wished
he hadn't lifted his visor before pushing the button.
    The medic on duty immediately came over to treat Utlin.
Within minutes, he was ready to return to the current location
of the away team.
    Utlin looked toward the tall blond female working the
transporter "Thanks for the fast work."
    The woman smiled "I was going to let you fall a bit, Sir,
but figured since your still new, your allowed one mistake."
    "Thanks." Utlin said.
    "But remember, only one." she smiled then disappeared,
replaced by the away team and the Borg station.
    Whitecloud looked at Utlin with a bit of a frown "Well," she
said "I don't think that elevator is going to work to get us to
lower levels."
    "There were other controls on the panel." Utlin returned
"Perhaps one of them regulates the speed."
    Whitecloud turned back to the tech at their panel "Do any of
those controls appear to be incremental?"
    "No, Sir." replied the tech after inspecting the panel for a
few seconds.
    Whitecloud then turned to Utlin "Did any of the controls on
the elevator appear to perform that function?"
    Utlin looked out at the elevator sitting in the shaft.  His
foot prints and other marks were barely noticeable in the dust
on the edges of the grating.  "I don't remember, perhaps I
should go out and take a look."
    Whitecloud and several others looked out at the elevator
"Your as good of a choice as any," she said "now that you are
experienced with the thing."
    Utlin flipped down his face shield and walked back on the
elevator.  The control pad had the two ovals on it with thumb
prints in the dust, it also had several other controls.  One
control was a graduated dial.  The dial had regular marks around
it with heavier lines forming an open bottom V at the top.  The
single mark on the dial was pointing straight down away from the
V.
    "If this is the speed control," Utlin said "it appears to be
at half speed.  Which way should I turn it?"
    "Turn it slightly one way," Whitecloud said "then ride it up
again.  Your tricorder should be able to tell us if it goes
faster or slower."
    Utlin turned the dial a couple of centimeters to the right,
sat down then pushed the top oval.  He didn't even feel the
contraption begin to move.  It just felt like the grate came up
and smacked him in the back of the head.  When he came to, he
was looking up at the face of the medic on the Vigilante.
    "What happened?" Utlin whispered.
    "You passed out from a blow to the head, and sever
g-forces." The Medic said "It's a good thing you were wearing a
helmet."
    The medic then had Utlin remove his uniform jacket and
shirt, both of which were shredded and soaked with blood.
Utlin's upper back was cut in a grid pattern from slamming back
on the grate.
    Twenty minutes after stepping into the elevator shaft the
second time, Lieutenant Utlin reappeared among his comrades.
They had retrieved the elevator a third time and were studying
its control pad.
    "You had a fifty, fifty chance." Whitecloud informed him.
"We've just finished tests on the elevator and are prepared to
proceed down to the next level.
    Half of the team stepped onto the elevator and rode it down
to the next level.  They had set the speed control a centimeter
in the opposite direction then Utlin had chosen.  The elevator
slid down the shaft at a very comfortable pace.
    The next level was a large open area.  High above them, they
could see the structural support of the previous level.  The
level, however, was cordoned off by 3 meter high walls and a low
humming sound could be heard.
    After the team was together, they made their way through the
corridors which soon revealed many 'work stations'.  All
stations were unmanned but appeared to be ready for use.  The
stations had a combination of standard Borg computer interfaces
and manual interfaces.  At the first computer interface port,
four personnel were left to attempt access.
    The noise became louder and more distinct as the team
proceeded through the maze.  Even though they hadn't encountered
any hostility, they turned each new corner in a two-by-two cover
formation.  One stayed high and the other low giving mutual
cover.  The rest of the team lined the walls with weapons drawn
and pointing up.  They snapped around the corners and moved
quickly through the area.
    Eventually, they reached a wide open area.  The place was
filled with giant working machines.  Many stretched over fifty
meters into the air.  All of the machines were painted the
normal dull Borg gray.  Most were connected with a series
conveyers and robotic tracks.  At the ends of the machine lines,
the parts coming off were enveloped by the green glow of the
Borg transporter and disappeared.
    The outside edge of the room was lined with standard Borg
interface stations.  Most of the stations were occupied with
assorted Borg.  Some Borg wandered about the machinery making
adjustments.
    "Lieutenant Whitecloud," came a voice over the team
intercom, it was one of the techs left behind to access the
computer port.
    "Go ahead" Anndrea responded as she watched the Borg wander
about, doing their insignificant duties.
    "We have accessed the first layer of security, we currently
have access to the functions of this work station.  It appears
that these abandoned ports have been neglected for so long that
there is no significant protection.  We are about to attempt
accessing the second level which appears to be the data
transmission level."  The young male voice said.
    "Very good," Whitecloud said "proceed."
    While the access was attempted, the rest of the team waited
at the entrance to the manufacturing area.  Soon, one of the
Borg stepped away from its station and headed for the team.
    The Borg had pale, ashen skin and was dressed with partial
armor like plates.  Servomechanisms could be seen opening and
closing driving the creatures legs.  Its respirator could be
heard opening and closing as it approached.  A ribbed tube ran
up behind its head from an apparatus on its back.  The tube
connected into its face just to the left of its chin and behind
the jaw.  The tube could then be seen under the skin merging
with its windpipe.
    "Looks like we have company." Lieutenant Whitecloud said.
    Several of the team took aim at the Borg but Whitecloud
waved them down.  "Let's see what it does." she whispered.  Then
said "Sub Team One, disengage the port, you've attracted some
attention."
    "But, Sir," returned the young voice "we have accessed the
data layer.  We've only just begun down loading."
    "Ensign, its coming for you.  Disengage immediately and
vacate the area.  Understood?"  Whitecloud said firmly.
    "Acknowledge." returned the voice.
    The whole team flattened against the walls as the Borg
walked between them.  Whitecloud signaled to the two at the end
of the line to follow the creature as it disappeared around a
corner.
    Golta's voice came over the ship to shore intercom: "Sub
Team One, you were given direct orders to disengage with the
port, comply immediately."
    "We just need a couple more minutes." the young tech's voice
returned.
    "Negative, disengage immediately.  We can not have the Borg
see us doing something that they object to so early."  Golta
practically growled.
    "Beam them out." Whitecloud said.
    "Negative, for security reasons, this early in the mission
we will not beam them out while they are under observation or
their equipment is accessing the Borg computers."  Golta said
gravely.
    "I can't disengage the tricorder from the port."  Came the
young voice now starting to panic.  "The ports must have
magnetic locking."
    "Set the self destruct on the tricorder and prepare for beam
out." Golta growled back.
    "Acknowledged."
    There was a slight pause when Golta came back "Beam out
completed."
    Then one of the team that had followed the Borg said "The
Borg is approaching the tricorder."
    Suddenly, in the direction they had come from, they could
hear a popping sound.   Sub Team Two reported back "The
tricorder exploded as the Borg attempted to access it.  The Borg
and the port were both destroyed."
    "Sub Team two report back to this position."  Whitecloud
said coolly.
    "Sir" One of the other team members said "You'd better look
at this."
    Whitecloud looked out at the machine area.  The conveyers
and the robotic arms were shaking.  Many of the lights around
the area were flickering.  As this was happening, the Borg
started stepping off their stations and several were already
heading for the team's position.  Some of the Borg were heading
toward them but most were heading into the machinery to check on
the malfunction.
    "Back to the elevator." Whitecloud order and started herding
the team before for her.
    "What if they're going to ignore us this time?" One of the
techs asked.
    "I have a hunch." Whitecloud said "Move it."
    The remaining members of the team headed back toward the
elevator ahead of Whitecloud and Utlin.
    Whitecloud and Utlin were several meters and few turns
behind the rest of the team.  They heard the lead say "They've
beamed into the damaged area.  Look out...arrrgh.."
    When Whitecloud and Utlin turned a corner they saw two of
the team firing at a Borg that had grabbed and injected one of
their comrades.  The Borg was beaming out just as the bright
blue of the phasers hit.  It exploded in a green and red flash
throwing the shooters back into the soldiers who had come up
behind them.  The room and the team were covered in green and
red gore from the Borg and the team member.
    "Home, this is Team One, eleven to beam out, now."
Whitecloud said loudly.
    "Negative." came Golta's gruff reply "The Borg have raised a
force field in your area, we are unable to transport."
    "To the elevator." Whitecloud said.
    The away team rushed through the twisting corridors back
tracking their way to the elevator.  This time, however, they
maintained the two by two cover formation rounding the remaining
corners.
    The elevator was in the shaft, but this time two Borg stood
on either side of the entrance.  When the first two came around
the corner, the Borg activated and started heading toward them.
    "Standard phaser power this time." Whitecloud warned from
behind them.
    "Aye, Sir." one of them said as they adjusted the large
weapons.
    Whitecloud watched the Borg advance slowly toward them.
"Fire."
    The two phasers each emitted a short red beam at a separate
Borg.  The Borg stumbled backward as a green patch glowed on
their torsos then fell over back wards.
    "Lets go." Whitecloud said then jumped forward leading the
team onto the elevator.  As soon as they were on the elevator,
Whitecloud nudged the speed control back toward center then
pushed the top oval.  They could just see the first Borg round
the corner when the elevator flew upward.
    Before they reached the level they had come down from they
felt the inertia seem to lift them away from the elevator.  The
shaft shifted and turned into the transporter room of the
Vigilante.  As a group, they seemed to jump together and land
clumsily on the pad.
    "Where's that fool?" Whitecloud demanded.
    "Ensign Peterson is waiting in Conference room A1." came
Lieutenant Golta's reply.  He had been standing next to the
control panel waiting for them.
    "What about the other team?" Lieutenant Utlin asked.
    "The Borg have continued to ignore them, so they will
continue their explorations."  Golta said then turned back to
Whitecloud "You, Lieutenant Utlin and myself are required in
Conference Room A1, immediately."
    Whitecloud dismissed the rest of the away team, then the
three exited the room.  Utlin and Whitecloud remained in full
mission gear and carried their helmets under their arms.

    Conference Room A1 was the 'court' room Captain Anthony and
Commander Tarva had used to meet the away team from the Delphi.
Ensign Peterson sat in the single chair facing the U shaped
table.  Captain Anthony occupied the chair in the middle of the
U and Commander Tarva was next to him.  Golta, Whitecloud and
Utlin took seats on the side of the U closest to the door.
    Ensign Peterson still wore his mission gear, his helmet sat
at his feet and his phaser was still in his holster.  He was a
young skinny human, slightly taller than Whitecloud.
    When the three were seated, Commander Tarva looked up from
her computer council directly at the ensign.  "Identify."
    The boy put his hand on a pad on the arm of the chair.  The
computer came on and started listing his name and history.  It
told of his graduation from Star Fleet Academy with honors just
two years earlier.  Five commendations were listed for
accomplishments in surveillance work and code decryption during
his previous/first tour along the Romulan Neutral zone.  It was
the file of a rising star in Star Fleet.  All in the room could
see the pride in the boy's face as the accomplishments of his
budding career were listed.
    Tarva continued to look directly at the Ensign "Ensign
Peterson, you are charged with disobeying a direct order,
resulting in the death of a team mate and jeopardizing the
entire mission of the Vigilante.  What is your defense to these
actions?"
    "Sir, the information I was collecting could have been vital
to our mission." Peterson said nervously "All I needed was a few
more minutes to accumulate enough data to be useful.  I could
not have predicted that the tricorder would become locked into
the access port.  There is also no indication that I would have
been able to disengage it if I had tried immediately after being
ordered to."
    Tarva continued to stare at the Ensign who was trying to
maintain his composure.  "Do you agree, that if you had
discovered that the tricorder was locked you could have
initiated the self destruct sequence earlier."
    "Perhaps." The boy admitted.
    "Do you agree that if the self destruct had been initiated
earlier the Borg unit that was damaged by the explosion would
not have been harmed?" Tarva continued coldly.
    "Yes."
    "Do you agree that if the Borg unit had not been harmed,
they would not have had a chance to act so severely toward the
Team member that had run into the replacement?"
    "Sir, there is no proof that the original unit would not
have attacked in the same way the second one did." Peterson was
continuing to stay calm.
    "But Ensign Osborne would have been aware of its presence
and not run into it." Tarva said as if concluding a complex
argument.
    "Ensign Osborne should not have been moving so recklessly
through a hostile environment." Peterson sounded as if he were
grasping at straws.
    This time Lieutenant Golta snorted then said "Excuse me
commander," Tarva nodded, Golta continued "We have the video
from the incident.  Perhaps, we should examine him 'moving
recklessly'"
    "Proceed." Tarva said after glancing toward the Captain.
    The screen on a side wall lit up showing the shaking video
of someone walking quickly down a hall.  The bottom of the
screen showed Osborne's name, the time and stardate.  The side
of the screen showed a readout of simple vital signs; pulse,
heart rate, respiration, and basic brain wave patterns.  He was
not moving in the standard two by two cover formation but was
stopping at each corner and checking the room before stepping
quickly into it.
    The room of the explosion was empty, including no sign of
the Borg caught by the explosion.  Ensign Osborne had checked it
properly and was half way through when a Borg materialized
directly before him and simply reached around him.  All of the
vital signs on the screen immediately went flat.  Soon after,
the screen shimmered green then went blank.
    Tarva said "Do you have anything else to say, Ensign."
    Ensign Peterson looked ill "No, Sir."
    The Captain looked at the young man "Please wait out side."
    Ensign Peterson stood stiffly and walked out of the room,
carrying his helmet professionally under one arm.  He stood
outside the room by himself in a very stiff at-ease stance.
Several minutes later, Lieutenant Utlin came to the door and
escorted him back in.
    "Please remain standing." The Captain said.
    All five at the table stood and faced the Ensign.  Commander
Tarva spoke first "For disobeying the direct orders of a
commanding officer while on a hazardous mission, you are
sentenced to exactly thirty hours in the brig.  You will also,
of course, have a notation made in your permanent record for
disobeying a direct order in a hazardous situation."
    Peterson didn't seem phased by the announcement "Is that
all, Sir?" he said emotionlessly.
    This time Golta spoke "No, that is not all.  You will also
be reassigned to duty in engineering.  The Drop Teams no longer
have use for your skills.  This reassignment also means
relocation to new quarters.  Before severing your time in the
brig, you will pack your gear and move to your new billet
location near engineering."
    Peterson had gone ghost white "But, Sir..." he mumbled.
    Commander Tarva cut him off "Dismissed."
    Golta, Utlin, and Whitecloud escorted Peterson back to his
quarters.  His roommate, thankfully was not there.  Golta
entered with him and collected the Drop Team gear.  Then stepped
outside while he packed his few possessions.
    When Ensign Peterson stepped back into the corridor he was
greeted by two lines of personnel facing into the center of the
hall, standing at stiff attention.  They were the total Drop
Team personnel less the current away team.  There was just
enough room for him to walk between them.  The lines started
about two meters from his door and were led by Golta and
Whitecloud.
    Ensign Peterson stiffened his back, sucked in his gut and
walked proudly toward the gauntlet.  As he approached,
Whitecloud and Golta snapped stiff, formal about faces and faced
away from him toward the bulkheads.  The rest of the personnel
did the exact same maneuver as Peterson approached.

--------------

    Several hours after returning from their mission, Whitecloud
and Utlin were reviewing the tapes and records in the drop team
meeting room.  They used the screen to replay key sequences of
the team members video.  Their goal was to reason out what the
purpose for the lower half of the station was.
    The most obvious function for the station, was
manufacturing.  Apparently, the Borg used the facilities to
repair massive damage to their ships.  There was some suggestion
that new cubes were also manufactured.  There was, however, no
indication that there were any cubes currently under
construction.
    The door to the room slid open allowing in Lieutenant
Commander Golta.  Utlin and Whitecloud stood as their immediate
superior approached.
    "The away team has returned." Golta said when he reached the
table.  "They have returned with something we think you may both
be interested in."  Golta looked directly at Utlin "Especially
you Lieutenant."
    "What is it?" Utlin asked curiously.
    "They've found what appears to be an unassimilated female
from your species."  Golta responded coldly.

-----------

    Whitecloud, Tarva, Anthony, Golta and Utlin stood watching a
monitor of a room in sick bay.  There was a single bunk with a
woman sitting on it.  She sat with her back against the wall and
had her arms wrapped around her legs hugging her knees to her
chest.  She sat with her face buried and rocked slowly back and
forth.  She wore a long heavy dress and robes, all appeared to
have once been highly decorated and ornate.  Now, they were
ripped and dirty.  She had dark skin and long dirty brown hair
that appeared that it might reach the floor.  From her current
position, they could not see her face or make out much about her
size or body structure.
    "She does look like a Child of Lin'hrlar." Utlin whispered,
very shaken "Do we have any pictures of her."
    Golta pressed a few buttons and the screen switched to some
mission footage.  The video showed the view from a point leader
slowly going through a Borg area.  The audio was the standard
sounds of machinery with occasional comments from the team
member.  Soon, he turned a corner and saw a mass of cloth and
hair huddled in a corner.
    He called for back up and approached the object carefully
with trained phaser.  When it was obvious he was being ignored,
he put his phaser away and gently made the woman look up at him.

Her face was dirty and gaunt, but there were no obvious signs of
injuries.  She had dark skin, darker then Utlin's, and she had
bright red eyes.  Her eyes, however, seemed totally blank.  The
rest of the video showed a tech doing a medical check then
finally the woman disappearing to the Vigilante.
    A medic had joined the group at the view screen.  She spoke
directly to Tarva "The woman is malnourished and dehydrated, but
otherwise in pretty good physical condition.  We've given her
some nutritional supplements, she won't let us get closer to do
anything else.  After what she's been through, we don't want to
force anything on her, at least not yet."
    Tarva turned to Lieutenant Utlin "What can you tell us about
her?  Is she one of your people?  Anything you can do to help us
contact her would be appreciated.  She may have information we
could use."
    Utlin sensed the coldness in Tarva's comments but ignored
it.  "She is 'One of Us'.  She appears to by high born and was
probably pampered and spoiled.  Her people are from the planet
Riganilus, you can tell from her darker skin and red eyes.
Riganilus was one of our ruling planets and a center for our
religion."
    The group could see Utlin's mixed emotions.  He was looking
at the only other known Child of Lin'hrlar, but apparently did
not care for her based on her heritage.
    "Do you think you could contact her?" Tarva asked "So far
she has not responded to any of our attempts."
    Utlin looked at the creature huddled on the bunk.  "I'll
try." he said simply.

    Sir Utlin dressed in his battle uniform.  It had been
cleaned and mended by the ships computer and looked better then
it had in years.  He carried the ceremonial sword in the loop on
his belt and wore his battle blaster securely strapped to his
left hip.  His hair was cut short and spiked like a warriors.
His red cape flowed brilliantly out around him.
    He marched into the small sickbay room and snapped to
attention then bowed deeply from the hips.  "My Lady." he said
in his own language "We are pleased to have found you alive and
well."
    The woman slowly looked up over her arm.  There was dirt
smeared across her face and greasy stringy her fell across her
face.  Her red eyes showed a glimmer of recognition at the
figure that stood before her.
    "Who are you?" she whispered hoarsely.
    "I am Sir Utlin Robe'than, formerly First Officer of the
carrier Star Controller and commander of Red Wing, Tactical
Fighter Squadron."  Utlin spoke very carefully. "And please, My
Lady, what is your name?"
    The woman looked up and down at the warrior before her.  It
was obvious she was inspecting the propriety of his
presentation.
    "I am Lady Purlerna Von Hather'fon of the House of Pulerna,
Second House of Lords in the Lin'Lolar region of Riganilus."
She stated.  As she spoke, she straightened herself out and
tried to look dignified.  "Where is my father?"
    "My Lady," Utlin said "we do not know were your father is."
    The woman looked about her "The creatures have been
defeated, we have won?  You must return me to my home, they must
be worried for me.  Where am I?  How did I get here?  My father
must be looking for me, when will I see him?  Is this one of my
Father's ships?  I didn't know the Star Controller followed my
father.  Is this the Star Controller?  Who are those creatures
who were here before...I must have been dreaming..."  She looked
at Utlin with a blank stare.  Her questions were still coming,
but her voice was gone to the dehydration.
    Sir Utlin helped her lay down flat then left the room.  He
went immediately to the Chief Medic.  "Are there any human
females who can treat her?"
    The Chief Medic looked at Utlin confused "Why human and
female?" he asked.
    "Humans look the most like our people." Utlin said "And a
woman of her breeding, would have only been tended by other
females.  I believe this would make her most comfortable."
    "It can be arranged." He replied.
    "Very good, also, please only allow humans and preferably
females in to see her.  The different species on the Vigilante
are beyond anything she would have ever encountered before."
Utlin thought to himself that they were beyond anything he had
ever encountered before.
    The next day Utlin returned to sick bay dressed again in his
traditional clothes.  Lady Pulerna paced her room, still wearing
her tattered robes and still quite dirty.
    The Chief Medic turned to Utlin "She has been very
uncooperative.  She refuses to bathe or change out of her rags.
She will not talk to her medic and barely acknowledges her
presence.  We are about to sedate her so we can get her cleaned
up and get some proper nourishment into her.  We were hoping you
could talk some sense into her before we took that step."
    Utlin signaled at her door then entered when she said
"What?"
    "I did not give you permission to enter." she spat at him.
"What is going on here, who are these people?"
    "My Lady" Utlin said after bowing "You were no condition
yesterday for me to explain, perhaps I should have."
    "Yes, perhaps you should have." She agreed angrily.
    "My Lady, you are on a space vessel called the 'Vigilante'."
Utlin started.
    "Vigilante" she hissed "What kind of name is that, I have
never heard of it.  Is it from one of the border fleets?"
    "My Lady," Utlin said gently "Perhaps you should sit down."
    "Why, what is wrong?" She insisted.
    "Please." Utlin said trying to be as calm as possible.
    The woman sat on the edge of her bed and looked at Sir
Utlin. "Out with it nave." she said "I'm getting tired of your
game."
    Utlin hung his head for a second then looked the woman in
the eyes "This is not a vessel of the Fleet.  It is an alien
vessel that was pursuing the creatures that attacked our
people."
    "Where are the rest of the Children of Lin'hrlar?" she asked
softly.
    "All was destroyed by the creatures known as the Borg."
Utlin said distantly "We are all that is left of the Children of
Lin'hrlar."
    Lady Purlerna started to slowly rock from side to side
humming some incoherent tune.  Her eyes were closed and her face
returned to its blank expression.
    Utlin took Lady Pulerna by the shoulders and shook her "You
must accept this." he said "They need you, I need you.  You must
be strong and make your Father and ancestors proud.  Do you hear
me?"
    The woman's burning red eyes suddenly flew open "How dare
you touch me, you Tregamalin." she snapped.
    Utlin stepped back and looked at the woman.  Had she
snapped, was she lost forever, or had Lin'hrlar reached out and
cleared her mind.  He would soon know.
    "What manner of creatures are these that we are among?" She
asked.
    "There are many different creatures on this vessel.  They
come from a place they call, The United Federation of Planets."
Utlin hoped that she had broken through the barriers she had
erected to protect herself against the Borg.
    "Where are they, I demand an audience with their Lord."  She
said imperially.
    "That can be arranged, but first, perhaps, you should get
cleaned up."  Utlin observed.
    The woman looked down at her robes then held herself up
straight.  "Perhaps that would be best.  You are dismissed for
now, but remain available.  I will require at least three
attendants to help me prepare for my meeting with the ship's
Lord."
    Utlin smiled, he couldn't wait to see this unleashed on the
Vigilante, they thought the Borg were tough to deal with.  He
bowed deeply from the waist "Very good my Lady." then exited the
room.
    The next few hours were a very trying time for the medics
assigned to Lady Purlerna.  She treated them as servants and
took minimal direction from them.  She refused to wear the
devises for the universal translator, insisting they were
beneath her.
    With the guidance of Lieutenant Utlin, they were able to
design clothes for her she wouldn't simply drop on the floor
saying "Unacceptable."
    Finally, she was cleaned and dressed in new flowing, blue
and red robes.  They were not nearly as ornate as what she was
used to but they would do, for now.  Her hair was cleaned and
flowed over her shoulders past her knees in front and behind
her.
    Utlin looked at her through the monitor, marveling at her
sudden beauty.  He did, however, notice that he was not as awe
struck with her royalty as he once would have been.
    "You will instruct Sir Utlin that I require his presence."
she said to one of her medic/attendants.
    "Yes, I will inform him." said the medic as she left.

    "I've had enough of Lady Purlerna." said the Medic as she
passed Utlin who was standing at the view screen.
    Utlin couldn't contain his smile, but didn't say a word.  He
headed into the Lady's 'chambers'.  "My Lady."
    "My attendants leave a lot to be desired." Lady Purlerna
said.  She was sitting in front of a mirror that had been
installed for her.
    "They are not attendants." Utlin said "They are highly
trained and dedicated Star Fleet medical officers."
    "Ha," Purlerna scoffed "Officers? You've got to be kidding.
Female officers, and did you see how light their skin was? I
don't even know what they're doing on a space craft."
    "My Lady," it was becoming very hard to spit that phrase out
"There is much for you to learn about the species that make up
the crew of the Vigilante.  Some of them are quite different
then anything we have ever seen in our part of the Galaxy."
    "Of course." Lady Purlerna said "Lin'hrlar exiled all
sentient creatures that were not in his image.  This Federation
must be the remains of those out casts.  Is it not written that
'All of the creatures known and unknown shall bow down and give
homage to the true children of Lin'hrlar?'"
    Utlin sighed, he'd forgotten that the High Lords of
Riganilus still followed the later writings of the Overseer of
Lin'hrlar.  If she truly believed that stuff, it would be very
difficult to get her to behave properly for the Vigilante.  He
was afraid that if she proved too bothersome, they would confine
her to quarters and ignore her.
    "Listen to me, My Lady." Utlin said very seriously "The
people on this ship had never heard of the Children of Lin'hrlar
before finding me.  They do not recognize birth right, only
actions and achievements.  They are very proud of the fact that
they do not restrict a person simply based on their heritage.
They will treat you with respect but they will not treat you as
a better."
    "Blasphemous." Purlerna said loudly "It is written that all
creatures will bow down before the Children of Lin'hrlar."
    "Please." Utlin insisted "They have not read the writings of
the Overseer.  You must remember that you...we are only guests
here."
    Lady Purlerna stiffened a bit then said "You are correct, we
are guests, we must behave as such.  Now I wish to meet our
host, please tell the Lord of this vessel that I will see him
now."
    Utlin hung his head and sighed "I will inform him." he then
turned crisply and left the room.
    Utlin returned to Lady Purlerna within five minutes and
escorted her to her new quarters.  He explained that the Lord
was not available immediately.  The Lord, however, wished that
she take the time to get acquainted with her new cabin.
    She walked slowly around the two rooms. "Why are there two
beds, is one for my attendant?  It shouldn't be in the same room
as mine.  Perhaps this is just the front chamber."  She walked
into the head and back out "What is the meaning of this? Where
are the rest of my chambers?"
    "This is all there is." Utlin said "You will not have an
attendant.  The second bunk is here because the quarters were
design to be shared by two people.  Junior Officers, to be
exact."
    "How will I get along, what if I need something."  She
asked.
    "Just ask the computer." Utlin then demonstrated.  "If there
is anything thing you need the computer can provide it for you,
or direct you to it."  He then demonstrated the replicator.
    "I have my own computer to do this for me?" She asked
suspiciously.
    "That's right." Utlin said.
    They were interrupted by a piping sound "Bridge to
Lieutenant Utlin."  came a female voice out of a wall speaker.
The intercom in the room had been modified to translate
automatically.
    "This is Lieutenant Utlin," he said "go ahead."
    "The Captain will see our guest now." returned the voice.
    "Thank you, Utlin out."
    "Bridge out."
    "Please explain something to me." Purlerna said.
    "Yes"
    "What is this 'Captain'?"
    "It is their title for ship's Lord." Utlin replied.
    "And 'Lieutenant'?" this time she sounded suspicious.
    Utlin smiled sheepishly "I must apologize, I have not been
totally honest with you.  I am no longer a guest on the
Vigilante.  I have accepted a commission in their organization.
I am part of the crew, and my rank is Lieutenant.  I have been
wearing this uniform so that you would feel comfortable with me.

I must admit, however, that it feels good to be in it again."
    "You are highly placed, perhaps second or third in command?"

She sounded impressed.
    Utlin looked about the room. "The room I'm quartered in is
exactly like this one.  I share it with a science officer, also
a lieutenant."
    She said no more, just followed him out of the room.  He
escorted her to the bridge.  They met very few people in the
corridors and Utlin was thankful for that.  She still had not
seen anybody but himself and humans.  He was not sure what her
reaction to her first alien would be, especially a Klingon, they
were just so damned ugly.
    Lady Purlerna paid little attention to the bridge.  She
seemed very unimpressed by it and the crew she saw there.  They
then walked into the room known as the Command Room.  It was
mostly filler with a long table, slightly rounded to fit the
room.
    One person sat at the table, a heavy framed man with long
gray/black hair pull back in a tail and thinning on top.  He
stood as Purlerna and Utlin entered and said "Welcome aboard the
Viglante."  He spoke into a devise he held in one hand that
translated for him.  "I am Captain Anthony, Captain of the
United Star Ship Vigilante."
    "Thank you." Purlerna said she then sat down in the chair at
the head of the table.
    The Captain reclaimed his seat and said "We have.."
    Anthony was interuppted by his guest "I did not give you
permission to be seated..Captain." she spat the last word.
    Captain Anthony sat back and laughed heartily.  "Lieutenant,
you warned me of her arrogance but I did not beleive you.  I
appolagize for that."  He then turned back to the Purlerna "My
Lady, you must understand that you are aristocrat without a
court.  I am the Captain of this vessel and that means I am
incharge of everything, includeing all crew and passengers.  If
I desired to have you returned to the place you were found, you
would be there before you could blink an eye--literally.  So
please behave yourself, we offer you life beyond the certain
death the Borg offered."  Anthony's face was totally serious.
    Purlerna was furious "How dare you speak to me that way, you
low class alien."
    Anthony sighed "If that's the way you want it.  Lieutenant,
please escort Miss Purlerna back to her quarters.  She will
remain there until she wishes to treat the crew of the Vigilante
with proper respect."

-----------

    Lieutenant Utlin entered Lady Purlerna's quarters after
signalling.  Ths time, he wore the standard ship's uniform with
the large black phaser replaceing his blaster.  It was twenty
two hours since Purlerna had been confined.
    Lady Purlerna's hair was tied back in a long tail.  She wore
some loungeing clothes she'd been able conjure up from her
replicator.  As soon as Utlin entered she turned on him furious
"Where have you been?" She yelled "I signalled for you more then
two hours ago."
    Utlin had been instructed to be civil to her.  They still
hoped to get though to her and get some information about the
Borg.  First, however, she had to learn to be a member of the
crew, or at least a gracious guest.  Anthony knew that if he
treated her like the royalty she had been, she would always be
impossible to deal with.
    Utlin looked at the woman and said sternly "I have duties
aboard this vessle.  I can not and will not drop what I am doing
everytime you 'signal'.  Now what is it that you signalled me
about?"
    Purlerna turned her back on him "It is unimportant, NOW."
    "In that case I would like you to meet a colleage and friend
of mine.  The Captain thinks that if you were to meet and talk
with some of the crew, you would learn to fit in better."
    Purlerna turned back around to look at Utlin "I do not care
to meet any of your warrior barbarian friends."
    "That's too bad." Utlin returned "She was very interested in
meeting you."
    "Really, how close a freind is She?"
    Utlin knew what she was implying and purposely ignored the
question.  This would just reinforce what she was thinking, what
ever got her interested.  Utlin leaned out into the hall and
signaled.
    Lieutenant Whitecloud came in dressed in standard uniform.
Her hair, however, instead of being simpley tied back, was held
back with a fancey silver clip with a large turquise stone in
it.  She had also applied a small amount of makeup, very
uncharacteristic for her.  Utlin had suggested the makeup, he
felt it might help Purlerna relate to her better.  Whitecloud
also wore the necklace and hearing aid used by the universal
translater.
    "Lady Purlerna this is Lietenant Whitecloud, my immediate
superior."  Utlin said formally.
    Whitecloud bowed very slightly and said with a pleasent
smile "I'm very pleased to meet you."
    Purlerna looked at the dark skin female who just entered.
The woman wore a very pleasent smile but her steal gray eyes
seemed cold and distant.
    "Of course your pleased." Purlerna replied then turned to
Utlin "Your dismissed, I'd to talk with Lieutenant Whitecloud
privately."

    Fifteen minutes later, Whitecloud met Utlin at his quarters.

She looked very confused another rarity for Lieutenant
Whitecloud.  "I don't know whether to laugh at the creature or
vent her."  She said as soon as she walked in.
    Utlin started laughing uncontrollably.
    "You set me up, what did you tell her?" she said finally
starting to smile.
    "I implied that we may be, how do you say...an Item."
    Whitecloud glanced at her painting of the soaring eagle
hanging on Utlin's wall.  "I suspected you may have said
something like that."
    "What did she say?"
    "She told me that I should stay away from you.  She said
that even though you are from Tregimalis you were from proper
enough breeding for her.  She said that an 'alien' such as
myself has no business with a Child of Lin'hrlar.  I was also
informed that it is your duty to take her as your 'Companion'
since you two are the last of your kind.  She also said other
things about the obvious inadequacies of my heritage which I do
not care to repeat."
    "I told you she could not be changed." Utlin said.
    "She was bred this way since birth.  They all are.  Why do
you think I chose the life of a warrior?  My own father had
arranged a match for me with a creature just like her.  I was
barely an adolesent, so I lied about my age and joined the
academy."  Utlin smiled at the memory.
    Tarva had gone into the head to remove the makeup as Utlin
spoke.  "You know," she said as she came out drying her face
with a large towel.  "I was thinking about what she said about
you taking her as your Companion.  I think she is quite right.
In fact, I think the sooner the better."
    "What?"
    "Perhaps if you spent a lot more quality time with her, she
would eventually be able to fit in."
    "No way," Utlin said starting to panic "I am not not going
to spend the rest of my life with that creature.  She may be
able to lose the edge enough to fit in, but she'll never
change."
    "You may not have a choice in the matter." Whitecloud said,
then quickly left the room.

                        to be continued...........
   ----------



                   T H E   V I G I L A N T E

                               Vb

                           "Outpost"
                          (continued)

......
Then lets have faith; good cometh out of ill;
The power that shaped the strife shall end the strife;
Then lets bow down before the Unkown Will;
Fight on, believing all is well with life;
Seeing within the worst of War's red rage
The gleam, the glory of the Golden Age.
                "Faith"
             Robert Service



    Captain Anthony had hoped to learn more about the Borg's
reactions to Lady Purlerna before he sent another team into the
station but soon gave up on the idea.  It was determined that
any information that may be gleaned from Purlerna would simply
have to be included in the mission report.
    The next missions were planned.  Drop Team One, led by
Lieutenant Whitecloud, would return to the foundry in mission
armor.  Drop Team Two, this time led by Lieutenant Commander
Golta, would again inspect the upper levels.  Drop Team Three,
led by Lieutenant Utlin, would return to the elevator shaft and
continue the investigation of the lower levels.
    After the incident earlier, the Borg had closely scanned the
vicinity outside of the station.  Probes the Vigilante had left
in orbit around the station reported high intensity sensor scans
exactly the same as those encountered by the Enterprise during
its encounters with the Borg.  Within six hours, all unusual
activity had ceased and the Borg returned to their normal
operating conditions.  Normal conditions also included the
dropping of the shields they'd erected around the incident site.

    "What if they have regained control of the elevator?" Utlin
asked.
    "Then we'll beam you out like we did last time."  Tarva said
simply.
    "What if they're just waiting for us to use the elevator
again then they'll have us." Utlin continued considering the
possibilities.
    "Lieutenant Utlin," Tarva said "if you do not wish to lead
this mission, or feel you are not ready, we will find a
replacement for you."
    "Sir," Utlin said formally "I am merely considering
contingencies."
    "Lieutenant Utlin, I don't have to remind you of the
contingency for getting captured by the Borg, do I?"  Tarva
queried.
    "No, Sir." Utlin returned immediately.  Fighting to the
death, was a tradition among his people and it still ran strong
within him.

    Drop Team One materialized outside of the Borg foundry.
They had beamed in with phasers drawn and in standard cover
formation.  After determining they were being ignored, they
started advancing on the foundry.  The tinted visors with EVE
(Electronic Vision Enhancement) revealed much more of what lay
just inside the entrance.
    The level they beamed in on turned out to be an overlook.
Below, were gigantic vats of molten iron and other ores.  The
furnaces seemed to be cranked to full volume, but no activity
was evident.  Standard Borg stations were immediately evident on
their level.  All stations were currently occupied.
    Whitecloud signaled for them to split up in standard paired
teams.  The first order of business for her, was to examine the
Borg of this area.  She approached the nearest station with
phaser drawn and trained on the occupant.
    The Borg was not the 'standard' model but was highly
modified.  Most Borg tended to have only part of their face
modified with implants.  These Borg, however, had totally
covered faces, in fact, every part of their bodies were covered.
    Another major difference was that they all had large back
packs.  The packs were made of many layers of small tubes that
were fused into their backs.  The stations the Borg stood at
were  larger then the standard stations to allow for the bulk of
the packs.
    "Why the back packs?" Whitecloud wondered aloud.
    The technician with Lieutenant Whitecloud ran scans on one
of the Borg.  "Sir, it appears that the back packs are cooling
units.  The modification would be necessary for the Borg to be
able to operate in this environment."
    "I agree." Whitecloud commented "I can think of no better
explanation."
    The level they were on, was more like a catwalk.  It
consisted of grating similar to what the elevator was made of.
The catwalk slowly spiraled down to the bottom of the foundry.
From their current position, though, the team could not see the
far side of the area.
    The Drop Team reassembled and started down the catwalk in
their standard two by two cover.  So far, they hadn't seen
any movement in the area but weren't going to take any chances.

--------------

    When Team Three tested the elevator, they found it still in
perfect working order.  Their fist stop was the level they had
visited previously.  The first goal was to try accessing one of
the ports.  This time, however, they would only monitor the
first data level.  There was no apparent response after ten
minutes so they disconnected and headed to the machinery.
    In the machinery area, the Borg continued to ignore the
team infiltrating directly among them.  The new objective was to
study the shop and determine what was being made.  Another goal
was to determine the level of technology being employed.  Were
the Borg manufacturing at a level above what the Federation was
capable of, and if they were, could they learn from it.
    It was apparent that the Borg could see the team members.
As the Borg wandered about performing their tasks, they would
adjust their paths so as not to run into anyone.
    The group had split into four sub-teams to more effectively
chart the area.  They were soon lost in the machinery that
towered above them, making most feel like insects.  It was soon
discovered that there were walk ways connecting the taller
machines.  Giving all a new perspective on the area.
    One of the subteams climbed to the catwalks for a better
view of the area.  The ladders were actually only long,
flattened U's built into the sides of the machines.  From the
catwalks it was obvious that this manufacturing area stretched
out for hundreds of meters beyond their entry point.  Beyond,
was what appeared to be another series of partitioned rooms,
similar to what they had just left.
    "Lets make for the far side." Utlin said "Maybe there are
more relics."
    The team gathered on the far side after two hours of
negotiating through the maze of machinery.  None had been
harassed or in anyway noticed by the Borg working in the area.
They fanned out and walked quickly across the fifty or so meters
of open area before the partitions.
    The new area was different from the partitioned section on
the far side of the level.  The area was not only walled but
covered.  The walls were sturdy and seemed thick.  The
tri-corders could not scan through the material and could not
positively identify it.  Where the partitions they had
encountered originally were open and easily accessible, they
could not immediately find an opening or door.
    "What is it?" one of the Techs asked.
    "Perhaps it's a storage facility." another volunteered.
    "Perhaps," Utlin said "We should find an entrance and find
out."  He then pointed to half the team and sent them in one
direction while he and the rest headed in the other.
    "Let us know if there are any changes in the tricorder
readings."  Anthony said as the teams separated.
    The walls were in panels of the same size as the dividers on
the other side.  These walls were dark green, almost black and
covered with a thin layer of dust.
    After ten minutes, the other team hailed Utlin.
    "Sir, we've found an area of the wall that appears to be a
sealed door."  Said the head tech with the group.
    "Acknowledged," Utlin returned "do not attempt entry.  We
will be with you shortly."
    Lieutenant Utlin then addressed the Vigilante "Home, this is
Team Three, requesting transport to sub team location."
    "Prepare for transport." came Chief Swanson's brief reply.
    The area around Utlin shifted and he and his team  found
themselves standing with the sub-team.
    "Report." Utlin said as soon as he arrived.
    "Sir," one of the techs said "we have found a seamed area of
the wall that reads thinner than the rest.  It is my opinion
that it is an opening of some kind."
    Utlin examined the seams then the surrounding wall.  "Are
there any scanners or releases in the area?"
    "No, Sir." The tech returned "We've done a complete scan of
the area and there are no other panels or any kind of scanning
devices."
    "What can you tell me about what's on the other side of this
wall?"  Utlin had stepped back and gazed at the 'door'.
    "Sir, our tricorders were unable to make accurate readings
through the material but since the door is thinner than the rest
of the wall we can make some cursory readings."  The Tech
responded.  "The atmosphere is breathable but uncirculated.  I
would describe it as 'stale'.  The door opens on to a hallway,
but we can't tell much beyond that."
    Utlin pulled out his own tricorder and pointed it at the
door.  He made a few adjustments then touched a button on the
control pad he wore on his right arm.  The team members with
their face shields down could see the MV Light ring come on
around Utlin's face shield.
    Utlin drew his phaser and held it in bent arm, pointing
in the air, the standard ready position.  "Team Three Leader to
Home." Utlin said.
    "Go ahead, Team Three Leader."  Came Commander Tarva's
reply.
    "Requesting transport to tricorder projected coordinates."
    "Prepare for transport." Tarva replied after a minute.
    Utlin touched a button dropping his face shield and said
"Energize."
    The standard, indirect, off-yellow Borg lighting
disappeared, replaced by the soft blue of MV radiating from
Utlin's helmet.  A long hall stretched into darkness in front of
him.  At the end of the light, he could see a connecting
corridor.
    Utlin turned around to examine the door, now behind him.
The difference in thickness between the door and wall were quite
evident.  The door was set into a meter deep alcove, this time
Utlin found the scanner they'd been looking for.
    "Home, this is team three leader." Utlin said formally.
There was, however, no answer.  "Home, I am not receiving your
reply." Utlin continued "I will, however, continue as if you can
read me.  I am inside the protected area.  There appears to be
no source of light.  I was hoping that my presence would trigger
automatic lighting but it has not." Utlin started shaking
slightly trying to fight back panic.
    "The area has obviously been sealed for a long time.  There
is atmosphere, but it is extremely stale.  There is minimal
dust, I can only assume that it indicates that the whole area is
tightly sealed from the rest of the station.  My first task will
be to open the door now that I appear to have access to the
control panel."
    Utlin pointed his tricorder at the control panel and fumbled
with its still relatively unfamiliar controls.  From what he
could tell, there appeared to be low voltage power to the panel.
The panel appeared to be a combination of previous control
panels and access terminals.  Utlin punched a few buttons and
looked for the scanner that the elevator had, but got no
response.
    Finally, Utlin decided to try the computer access. His
tricorder had been fitted with a 'standard' Borg style
connecter, so it plugged right in.  The tri-corder's automatic
diagnostics immediately began trying to access the port.  After
a couple of minutes it beeped indicating it had found a possible
access.  Utlin then had to press a button allowing it to
continue with a set of precoded, random access, algorithms.
    Within minutes, the panel lit up and the tricorder beeped
again.  Utlin now had two choices, he could try to access the
panel's functions manually or he could allow the tricorder to
continue its analysis.  Sick of playing with the tricorder,
Utlin reached out and pressed the largest button on the now lit
control panel.
    There was a pause after he pushed the button that made Utlin
think nothing was going to happen.  Then the door moved in
toward him and slid slowly into the wall.  When the door started
to move, Utlin lifted his face shield, eliminating the effects
of his MV light, and looked around.  Hidden lights in the top
corners of the walls had come on slightly illuminating the tops
of all of the walls.  It made for an eerie effect, like a
pathway leading into inky nothingness.
    As soon as the door opened enough for them to fit, the rest
of Utlin's team pushed their way in.  Four immediately formed a
standard cover formation facing down the hallway.  The rest
lined the walls, all with weapons drawn and safely pointed at
the ceiling.  The lights continued to brighten, illuminating the
team and the hallway.
    "Sir," Ensign Morris said "we were unable to read your
transmissions while the door was closed."
    "I thought as much since I could not raise you or home."
Utlin replied to his second.  "Post two guards outside the door
so we can maintain contact with the Vigilante.  Also, before we
move further in, we must determine how our signals are being
blocked.  Is it part of the structure or is it aimed at us."
    Utlin then stepped outside and signaled the Vigilante.
"Home, this is Lieutenant Utlin."
    "Report." Tarva said simply. "We have lost signals from all
personnel inside the new area."
    "The material appears to absorb all communication signals.
The tricorders were only able to penetrate at the thinner door
area.  I suggest that if we enter further into the area we'll
have to proceed with extreme caution."
    "Agreed," Tarva said "We'll beam down communication relays
so that we can maintain contact but we will be unable to get a
proper lock for transport.  If you go in, your going to have to
get yourselves out."
    "Agreed." Utlin returned.
    "One other thing." Tarva continued "Our scans are blocked
for over two hundred meters down.  You have a lot of area you
can explore, and only one known exit."
    "We'll proceed with caution."  Utlin said, "Out".
    Utlin saw a number of backpacks appear.  Each pack contained
twenty relays about the size of a tricorder.  They would simply
activate and place the relay on the floor when their connection
with the Vigilante began to fade.
    When Utlin returned to the hall, the lights were bright
enough to see to the end of the hall.  The lights were not
bright, just the standard off yellow indirect light that was
prevalent in the rest of the level.
    The five packs of relays were distributed to the technicians
then the group started down the hallway.  Twenty meters in, they
came to the first intersection.  Utlin split the group in half
and each took a corridor.

-----------

    Captain Robert Anthony stood in the Away Team command
center.  The center looked like the bridge of a Starship.  There
was a commander's chair in the middle of the room with
operator's stations in front of it.  Each operator could monitor
several team members at a time and the commander could direct
any of the video to one of five screens on the front wall.
    When Anthony had first visited the center during one of the
training missions, Lt Commander Golta had instinctively offered
the center chair.  Anthony, however, refused telling Golta that
in this room he was in charge of activity unless specifically
relieved.
    Now the command center was busy.  With the most away teams
yet deployed, most of the operators had reported even though
they were not needed.  The area had been designed to follow and
coordinate over 300 personnel, if needed.  Currently there were
only 48 deployed.
    Tarva sat in the commander's chair.  With Golta taking this
early opportunity to join in on the fun, Tarva had to cover for
him.  Anthony smiled to himself, he wished he could be out there
with them, that's why he was here now.

-----------

    Soon after splitting up, Utlin's team found the first room.
The lights in the room came on as they entered.  The room was
filled with bunks holding mummified Borg.  These Borg were
different than the ones Starfleet was used to.  They where
obviously Borg but not nearly as heavily implanted as standard
Borg.  Also, the stations they were on appeared to be only sleep
areas.
    "Sir," one of the techs said to Utlin after examining some
of the bodies.
    "Yes, Lieutenant." Utlin replied.
    "I can not find any of the standard Borg circuits in these
bodies." The tech said.
    "Elaborate." Utlin said as he approached the young woman.
    "Sir, all Borg we have encountered have two main kinds of
interfaces.  The first is the main power connector, which allows
them to feed.  The other is the Borg link, which keeps them
connected to the whole.  These Borg do not have the circuits for
the Borg link.  In fact, it is my guess that these units were
never part of the link.  I wish I had the facilities on the ship
to do a proper analysis."
    "Team leader to Home." Utlin said to his mike.
    "This is home." came Tarva's voice.
    "Can you read the Borg units in the area?"
    "Only through your transmissions, we are unable to
accurately scan the area."
    "Would it be possible to transport some of the bodies to
home for closer inspection?" Utlin sounded more curious then
anything.
    "If you triangulate with the location function on three
tricorders we may be able to get a proper lock."
    "Permission to attempt transport?".
    "Hold." was Tarva's reply.
    There was a few minutes of silence then Tarva returned
"Proper isolation fields have been activated.  Prepare for
triangulation."
    Utlin motioned for three techs to surround one of the
bodies.  "Sending coordinates..now". Utlin said when all three
signaled ready.
    There was a slight pause then the body was gone.  They did
the same with two other bodies that appeared to be different
models.
    Utlin's team continued to survey the new area.  They soon
found areas that appeared to be living, dining, even recreation
and computer interface areas.  It was slow tedious work, but
Captain Anthony decided in order to understand an enemy, one
must know as much about its past as possible.

-----------

    Anthony stood in an observation room looking at one of the
Borg bodies.  They had turned out to be extremely well preserved
and were providing unprecedented information on the inner
workings of the implants.  Though the Enterprise had made
extensive examinations of a captured Borg, named Hugh, and
Locutus, there had never been a chance to actually dissect one.
    It was the Vigilante's third shift and a smaller staff was
on duty in the science section.  Two of the other Borg were
currently being examined, this one was alone.  Anthony saw
movement out of the corner of his eye.
    A woman entered the exam room.  She wore the standard, red
uniform of command and commander's pips.  Her wavy blond hair
barely touched her collar and was held off of her face by a
couple of simple clips.  With her hands clasped behind her back,
she slowly walked around the creature.
    Anthony watched in fascination as the woman circled the Borg
several times.  Finally, she stopped and looked at Anthony
through the one-way window.
    "It's close," she said "very close, but not exact.  It was
never part of the link.  You need to be able to access the link
without them knowing.  If you can do that, they can be
defeated."
  Anthony watched the woman approach then fade as she reached
the window.  He continued staring into the room as a tear
formed in his eye.  Blood dripped from his palms from squeezing
his finger nails into them.

-----------

    Lieutenant Utlin sat in his quarters examining recordings of
the days explorations.  His roommate had been transferred closer
to the science section so he again lived alone.  He was not
reviewing his own team's records, rather he was looking at Team
One's records of their explorations of the top half of the
station.
    There was occasional evidence of his own civilization.  The
artifacts were coldly presented, but they were there.  Remains
of familiar structures and workmanship, Children of Lin'hrlar
raped and twisted by these evil creatures, all could be seen in
these cold records of the days journey.
    Utlin had wanted to spend this time in the Command Center
but had been ordered to his quarters.  They wanted him fresh to
lead the expedition to the next layer of the 'Barracks', what
the new section had been named.
    As survey teams continued the exploration of new areas,
Utlin found it irresistible to stay away from the Command
Center.  Now, he sat in his quarters examining what records he
did have and making plans for his next shift.
    Since the Captain had ordered a fourth team into the outpost
to explore the next level down they were already suffering from
information overload.  With all of the information coming in, it
was impossible to analyze all of it.  It was quickly becoming
obvious that they would not come near to having a complete
understanding of the outpost during their time here.  The
technicians of the Command Center had become more like
librarians of the new data rather than analyzers of it.
    As Utlin stared at the images before him his door signal
chimed.
    "Come." he said without looking up.
    He heard the door open and someone walk in.  He looked up to
see Anndrea standing just inside his door.  She wore her
standard uniform but her straight back hair hung loose about her
collar.  Somehow, she seemed softer than usual, almost, but not
quite, peaceful.
    Utlin stood out of courtesy "Good evening, I believe is the
proper greeting." he said with a smile. "How are you tonight."
    Anndrea managed a soft smile then said "I'm fine, just came
to see what your impressions of today's events are."
    Utlin motioned to one of the rough duty chairs near his work
station and waited for Anndrea to sit down and let the chair
form to her.  "The working areas that Team one explored are
fascinating and quite disturbing to me but they don't seem to
hold many surprises."  Utlin began.
    "How integrated have your people seem to have become with
the Borg?"  Whitecloud said carefully.
    Utlin sat back and looked at the images scrolling by on his
screen.  "Their behavior or duties don't seem to be any
different than the rest of the Borg units.  The impression is
that they have become fully assimilated into the society.  Other
than that, I really don't have any special insights, they are no
longer Children of Lin'hrlar, they are Borg."
    Whitecloud sat back in the chair and closed her eyes.  Her
legs moved slightly as if she were trying to swing the chair
from side to side.  "Has there been any progress with Lady
Purlerna?"
    Utlin cringed at the thought.  "She's changed, she no longer
acknowledges the existence of the Borg, she thinks she's on a
long cruise.  We sit in this accursed outpost and she looks at a
view screen and sees stars streaking by."
    "Haven't the counselors been working with her?" Whitecloud
asked.
    "The counselors on this ship are trained to help warriors
find their lost metal.  They are no not what you would call
xenophysicologists, trained to guide an alien mind back from its
depths.  From the cases I'm familiar with, when one of my people
was lost, there was no retrieving.  Perhaps it is Lin'hrlar
protecting her from the terror we face now."  Utlin had
obviously given this a lot of thought.
    "What is going to be done with her?" Whitecloud actually
sounded concerned.
    "It's still undecided," Utlin replied "She has named her
computer interface and now thinks it's her attendant.  She never
leaves her room and I am the only person she even acknowledges,
all others she ignores."  Utlin had learned to like Purlerna in
the past couple of days but it was more out of pity.
    "She has only been like this for a couple of days, she could
still come back."  Utlin continued.  "Like I said, once a Child
of Lin'hrlar is lost, they usually can't be retrieved except
through the grace of Lin'hrlar himself."
    "You will continue to try to talk her out of it?"
Whitecloud asked.
    The thought was obviously an unpleasant one, but Utlin
nodded simply and said "Yes, I'll continue to visit her when I
have time."
    "Very good, now, tomorrow we have a big day ahead of us.  I
plan to join you in the exploration of the next level of the
barracks."  Whitecloud looked as if she had just delivered very
good news.
    "Your taking command of my team?" Utlin asked defensively.
    "Not at all, we've just decided that Team two should join
you in the Barracks.  It is too large of a place to be explored
by only sixteen people at a time."
    "And the other areas?" Utlin asked.
    "Teams six and seven will join Team one in the upper half
and Team five will join Team four on the next level.  You know,
Team four seems to have found some sort of communications array
but they're holding decision on that until we get more
information."  Whitecloud replied.
    "We really should get some rest before the expedition."
Whitecloud said after a moment of silence.
    "Perhaps your right." Utlin agreed.
    Anndrea stood and walked into the other room, removing her
uniform jacket.  Utlin followed her, saying "Computer, lights
intensity 2."
    The lights dimmed.

-----------

    The two teams appeared outside of the only known entrance to
the Barracks.  Team four had looked for sign of it on their
level, but could not track it down.  The further into the
outpost they got, the more interference they encountered in all
of their tracking equipment.
    The third shift teams were just emerging from the structure.
Their leader immediately reported to Lieutenant Whitecloud.  The
report basically told them that there were no new findings, only
Borg in various states of decay.  They hadn't even found any new
specimens worth beaming aboard the Vigilante in almost four
hours.
    The only new thing that had been found since Utlin had left
was the elevators they planned to take down to the next level.
They were easy to find, just follow the main hallway to its end.

The team that found the elevators had tested one but had not
ridden it, that would be the privilege of their superiors.
    Utlin felt a strange feeling as the double team approached
the bank of elevator shafts.  There were 30 personnel in the
group, one person from each team had been left at the door as
guards or look outs.
    He looked up at the top of the shaft just above his head.
"I don't think we want to go up."
    The controls on the two panels were identical to the ones on
the earlier elevator.  They had already been tested, and were
suppose to be properly set for use.  Utlin hesitated then
stepped onto the grating.
    "I guess I'm still the logical choice." he quipped "I've got
the most experience."
    "Remember," Whitecloud reminded him "the Vigilante's
transporters are not there to pull you out this time."
    "Thank you Lieutenant," Utlin said with a smile, "I'm aware
of that."
    There were twenty five elevators along the back wall.  The
two teams would use three of them.  Two team members were chosen
to stay at the top level to maintain the communication relays.
Relays were also being attached to the top of the shafts and to
the elevators.
    The second level looked like the one above, a main corradore
down the middle with connecting corridors about every twenty
meters. There were no immediate differences, but all felt the
cold isolation and age of the area.  It was like opening an
ancient tomb.
    Once everyone was off the elevators they split into their
original teams.  The plan was for each team to explore half of
the level, using the main corridor as the divider.  It was soon
discovered, however, that this level was quite different than
the first.
    The area to the right of the corridor was one large open
room.  It was divided off by standing containers, supporting
wires and other hardware.  The containers were large enough to
hold a large size humanoid, they were black with metal trim and
partial glass fronts.
    The containers could not be seen over, because of their size
and the support cabling running to them.  The team could tell,
however, that this half of the barracks was filled with them.
    "Sir," one of the technicians said "The containers hold Borg
units apparently in stasis.  I read a very small trickle charge
to all of the chambers."

--------------

    After two days of exploring the lower levels of the
'Barracks', Whitecloud and Utlin were ready to make a formal
presentation to command.  Captain Anthony and the rest were in
the Command Room.
    Whitecloud stood by the main screen with a cut away
schematic of the Barracks.  "Sir," she began "The Barracks is
filled with a different model of Borg then we have yet
discovered.  As you know, the top level was filled with
mummified Borg that do not appear to have been part of the 'Borg
link'.
    "Most of the Borg in the lower levels, however, do appear to
be in some kind of stasis.  The Borg in stasis do seem to be in
perfect condition.  There are some units that appear to be in
defective containers.  These Borg show extreme signs of
decomposition."  The picture on the view screen then split to
show a pile of Borg attachments and what appeared to be humanoid
remains.
    Whitecloud turned and looked at the remains "We have begun
an analysis of all Borg attachments.  Because of the age and
micro-fine wires, the job of safely collecting the pieces is
extremely tedious."
    "What about the undamaged units?" The Captain asked.
    The remaining schematic of the Barracks was replaced with a
picture of a Borg in its container.  "We are not certain what
the reaction might be if we disturb the viable Borg units.  We
are waiting for your go ahead to open some of stasis units."
    The group began discussing the pros and cons of opening some
of the containers.  It was obvious that the computer systems on
each level monitored the Borg, but it was impossible to
determine to what degree.
    Robert Anthony listened to his officers discuss the merits
of opening the stasis tubes.  It occurred to him that there was
only one decision he could make.
    The Captain cleared his throat and the room immediately fell
silent.  Anthony stared at the ghostly Borg image on the screen
for a second then said "You've been discussing weather or not to
open some of these containers, there is no choice."  Anthony
looked at his officers for a second then continued.  "The
containers MUST be opened.  Our mission here is to gather
information, nothing else.  This gives us only one plan of
action, that is to open the containers and discover as much
about these units as we can.  The choice then becomes..How do we
do it?"
    Anthony looked at the group again, they were all nodding
agreement.  "Now, what I want you to do is analyze as much as
you can about these units and the stasis system before we try
opening a chamber.  I will be kept abreast of all progress on
the analysis and will maintain the final go ahead for opening,
is that clear?"
    "Yes, Sir." the group responded, practically in unison.

--------------

    Lieutenant Utlin stood in an observation room looking at
Lady Purlerna.   She sat hunched in a corner of her room, slowly
rocking back and forth.  Her arms were wrapped around her knees
hugging them tightly against her face.  "How long has she been
like this?" he asked an attendant.
    "We found her that way this morning." a female Ensign
replied.  This one was different from most, she had short,
straight, black hair and pointed ears.  Whenever Utlin spoke to
her, which wasn't often, she seemed cold, almost mechanical.
    "Did anything happen that could have caused this reaction?"
Utlin continued to stare at Purlerna.
    "The surveillance cameras show that she woke in the middle
of the night and crawled into the corner."  The pointed eared
female continued to talk to him emotionlessly.

    Utlin approached Lady Purlerna then knelt in front of her.
He reached out and slowly stroked her hair from in front of her
face, soon he could see her forehead over the top of her knees.
She had stopped rocking as soon as he touched her.  He gently
placed his hands on either side of her head and made her look up
at him.
    Half of Lady Purlerna's face was covered with a black mask.
A multi-prismed goggle covered her right eye, wrapping around
the side of her head, embedding into her skull just behind her
ear.  A small red laser was attached to the appliance along the
jaw line and flashed across Utlin's face as the woman looked up
at him.
    Purlerna's good eye widened in recognition, she spoke in a
mechanicle imitation of her own voice "Resistance is futile,"
she said "surrender for assimilation and serve the greater good
of the collective."

    Utlin sat straight up in bed trying to chase away the dream.
With his movement, the cabin lights brightened slightly.  He
looked around trying to remember where he was.  Utlin could
sense warmth next to him, he looked down on the bronze, muscled,
V shaped back of Anndrea Whitecloud.  The sheets covered her to
her waist and her straight black hair partially hid her
shoulders.  She hugged a pillow under her face and looked at him
with her one exposed eye.
    "Was it the dream again?"  She sounded slightly groggy but
very coherent.
    "Yes."
    "Is it still the same."
    "No, she spoke." Utlin shook his head trying to clear the
remaining threads of the dream.
    "And" Anndrea still hadn't moved.
    "She said that resistance is futile and we should just
surrender."  Utlin had leaned back on his elbows and was looking
at the painting of a four legged creature on the ceiling.  "Do
you think they know where we are?" He asked.
    "I don't think so, they'd be in here after us." Anndrea
responded. "Besides, there isn't much we could do about it if
they did."
    Utlin continued to study the ceiling and the poem Anndrea
had included:
        Go to the Wild that waits for me;
        Go where the moose and the musk-ox be;
        Go to the wolf and the secret snows;
        Go to my fate...who knows, who knows!
                                          R.W.S.
He finally understood.

--------------

    Transport areas were set up on each level of the barracks.
Standard pattern enhancer pylons were used and were tied into
the communications relays.  This allowed the crew to stand in
the field defined by the pattern enhancers and be beamed back to
the Vigilante as if a transporter had been installed.
    Utlin and Whitecloud watched as technicians started running
tests on the room's computer terminals and on five viable Borg.
One of the tricorders connected to an interface port began to
beep indicating a break in the code.
    "Has it accessed the terminal?" Whitecloud asked as she
stepped toward the tricorder.  As she spoke, the other
tricorders also began to signal.
    Several technicians were monitoring the tricorders with the
larger analytical tricorders.  "Negative." one of them said "The
tricorders appear to have activated the computers."
    "Home, this is team one, should we discontinue experiment?"
Whitecloud said immediately.
    After a slight pause, Commander Tarva replied "Negative,
continue data collection, but upgrade to defense condition two."
    The teams had entered the barracks under defense condition
one; drawn weapons, mutual cover formations etc.  They were
currently under def-con 3; holstered and locked weapons, helmets
off or visors up, generally a more relaxed working atmosphere.
Def-con 2 called for charged weapons, helmets on with lowered
visors where appropriate and nonworking personnel taking
positions to provide more security.  The security personnel were
always under a defense condition that was one higher than the
rest of the crew.
    The computer panels began to light up and seemed to begin
running diagnostics as lights and displays began flashing in
increasingly complex patterns.  Within minutes, all levels began
reporting that their computers were going through the same
sequences, even those that they had not tried to access.  Soon,
the rooms began to light up as the support cabling running to
the stasis containers began to glow.
    When the stasis containers began being effected by the power
up, Tarva ordered all tricorders disengaged.  The removal,
however, had no effect on the activation.
    All teams except for teams two and three were immediately
evacuated.  Teams two and three remained behind to monitor the
new activity.
    All remaining team members had gone to def-con one.  The
team couldn't do much about the activation,just monitor and try
to remain close to the beam out points.  Lieutenants Utlin and
Whitecloud remained by the computer centers as the technicians
continued to monitor the changes.
    "Sir," one of the techs said "There's something happening in
one of the canisters."
    A canister that had stood off to the side from the rest had
lit up and began to hum.  All phasers were immediately aimed at
the lone container.  Whitecloud, however, signaled for them to
relax slightly.
    Soon, the front of the canister jerked open releasing steam
and an acrid odor.  The Borg standing inside could be seen
unmoving through the smoke.  It didn't move for several seconds
then began to take deep breaths.  Bellows built into the Borg's
sides  constricted and expanded to force each breath.
    The Borg was built different from other units, it had a full
head appliance that didn't cover any part of its face, the body
armor was thicker than normal and more angular.  The unit's
attachments for the arms were connected on top of the arms
leaving the hands free.
    Its eyes snapped open and it stepped out of the canister
walking directly toward the group.  They thought it would ignore
them as usual, instead it stopped and stared at its reflection
in the Utlin's face shield.
    The Borg spoke to Utlin in a cold mechanical voice that the
universal translator automatically translated to standard
"Identify."
    For want of something better to do, Utlin opened his face,
bowed slightly, never losing eye contact with the Borg and said
stiffly "Sir Utlin, at your service, Sir."
    The Borg stood with his head tilted to the side for a second
then said in perfect mechanical Federation Standard "Why have
you awakened me..us..Sir Utlin At Your Service Sir."
    Utlin hesitated for a second then said simply "Identify."
    The Borg did a stiff imitation of Utlin's bow and said
"Offensive Unit One of ten kil.  Why are you awakening us, Sir
Utlin At Your Service Sir."
    The Borg tilted its head to the side again and stared past
Utlin for a second then said "RESISTANCE IS FUTILE, YOU WILL BE
ASSIMILATED...." the Borg looked confused for a second then
spoke again "The link has been expanded, this must be
investigated."  He turned to the computer terminal making a fist
of his right hand causing a long metal rod to telescope from the
underside of his wrist, then connected to the terminal.

    There was a call from one of the guards on the first level
of the Barracks "Attention, this is sentry one, we have company.
Three Borg have just materialized outside the Barracks and are
heading in."
    Tarva's response was immediate "All teams, evacuate
immediately." Tarva hesitated for a second then added "Defend
yourselves with extreme prejudice."
    As Tarva spoke, so did the old Borg "You are intruders."
    The Borg then moved faster then anyone had ever seen.  His
left arm connected with a device attached to his hip, bringing
it up pointed at Utlin.  Before they had a chance to react, the
thing fired a burst of yellow energy striking Utlin just below
the right elbow as he jumped out of the way.  The blast severed
Utlin's arm and blew a large gash in his right side.  Utlin's
dark red blood splattered in all directions as the blast
continued on striking a much slower human tech.  The tech to
simply blew apart as he flew back against several stasis
canisters.
     Utlin was the first to fire back at the Borg.  He had fired
as he jumped out of the way, still taking the hit.  The Borg was
hit low on its right side.  It staggered back a step but it took
aim again.  Through the ensuing commotion Lieutenant Utlin could
still hear the whirring and beeping of the tricorder clutched in
his right hand.
    This time the Borg's shot went wide as it absorbed ten more
red phaser blasts.  The team could hear the Borg's shot strike
something behind them with a loud explosion.  The Borg stumbled
back from the phaser strikes, with wires sparking from dry
wounds.

    <This is Chief Swanson,>
    Came the voice of the usually quiet transporter chief.
    <We've just lost signal from transport area A, repeat, we've
just lost signal from transport area A.>

    The Borg fired again, this time the shot went totally wild,
destroying several stasis containers and showering the team with
sparks and debris.  It was the last thing Offensive Unit One of
Ten Kil did as a bright blue phaser beam struck the creature,
instantly vaporizing it.

    The radio-intercom was soon filled with disjointed
confusion...
    <The Borg are still coming>...
    <Team Three withdraw immediately>...
    <Team Three, report status>...
    <The door is closing>...
    <We're going to be trapped>...

    None of the team members had had the presence of mind to
change their phaser settings except Lieutenant Whitecloud.
Anndrea knelt over Utlin holding a triage pad over the wound,
her phaser still leveled at the spot where the Borg had been.
The rest of the team held similar cover positions all kneeling
or crouched giving 360 degree cover.
    <Team Three....withdrawal....level one.....Quad A... extr..>
Commander Tarva's transmission and all other's from the
Vigilante ended with the closing of the Barrack's door.
    One of the techs who was still monitoring his tricorder
spoke up "Other canisters are powering up."
    Whitecloud quickly looked at the lights on all of the
equipment. "Lets move toward the elevators."  She thought for a
second then added "Target all equipment and make sure we get
those analytical tricorders out with us."  With that she fired
an extended beam into the main computer station near them.
    The team got to its feet and started firing on all computer
terminals, canisters and conduits.  They were soon being
showered with sparks, fire and debris.  The closest canisters
and equipment vaporized while other equipment started exploding
from chain reactions.
    Team Three started down the hall toward the main corridor.
Lieutenant Whitecloud held Lieutenant Utlin to her side holding
the triage patch in place.  Utlin's stumped didn't bleed, it was
cauterized by the blast.  The rest of the team split into their
standard two by two cover formation.
    Borg units started to appear from around the banks of
canisters.  Each was slightly different from the next but all
appeared to be heavily armored and lumbered more than the
standard Borg.  Many had full face appliances and carried
accessories strapped to their sides.
    The new units were immediately targeted but were barely
effected by the standard red phaser, even at full power.  Many
of the team, however, had already switched to blue which
vaporized the creatures.                          .
    "Full power to blue spectrum." Whitecloud yelled through the
confusion.
    With the whole team now firing in blue, large areas started
to clear around them as everything vaporized.  The phasers
however, started to over heat and shut down, Whitecloud's was
the first to go.
    Anndrea Whitecloud holstered her phaser and took Lieutenant
Utlin's.  Using the aiming systems built into the weapon and her
helmet, Anndrea drew down on another emerging Borg.  Left handed
firing was always one of Anndrea's weak points but she still
drew marksmanship honors.  Now, with the weight of Utlin at her
side, the pressure of having to keep moving, the intense heat
from the fire fight and moving targets, Whitecloud missed.
    As soon as she missed, Whitecloud called a warning, dropped
the Lieutenant and jumped to the side, re-aiming.  Before she
could regain her target, however, the Borg fired at her and the
two team members that had stayed with her for support.  The two
others were hit by the full force of the blast disintegrating
them in a blaze of red.  Anndrea felt the remains of her
commrads splash against her as she vaporized the Borg.
    Utlin lay face up on the deck clutching his side, slowly
rocking back and forth.  Anndrea couldn't see his face, but
could still feel his pain.  She helped the Lieutenant back to
his feet and headed into the curtain of smoke and fire ahead of
her.

--------------

    The communications on the bridge of the Vigilante had
erupted into a sea of confusion as soon as the door to the
barracks closed.  Captain Anthony was suddenly bombarded with
information from every survey support team on the ship.
Anthony's attention, however, was focused solely on Commander
Tarva, Lieutenant Commander Kartang, and Lieutenant Commander
Golta.  Golta and Kartang were in their command centers and
shared a split main screen.
    "Sir, all teams except team three were safely evacuated
before the door closed." Tarva reported.
    "Were the evacuation coordinates successfully relayed."
Anthony sounded like he was grasping at straws.
    "I don't know what good that will do." Golta growled "even
if they make it to the coordinates, there's no way we can
transport them out.  The Borg have raised the transport shields
again."
    Anthony scanned the faces on his main screen then turned
slightly to also look at his first officer.  "That's our next
mission, to retrieve the lost Drop Team and their tricorders."
    "Sir," Tarva said formally, "I must remind you that our
mission guidelines clearly state that we should not jeopardize
the mission of the Vigilante for the life of any member of the
crew."
    Anthony smiled slightly "The key word there is 'guidelines'.
The over ridding mission command is that the Captain has
complete authority to follow his own judgment."
    Tarva sat up a little straighter, she never wanted to leave
the team behind.  It was, however, her job to remind the Captain
of mission regulations.
    Anthony turned back to the screen "Now, I want suggestions
for the rescue, and I want them within ten minutes.  We have
people dying down there."
    Ten minutes later, Anthony and Tarva met Golta, Kartang and
Lieutenant Valerta in the 'Cavern'.  "Okay, what's the plan?"
Anthony asked as they approached.
    The two Klingons and the Kalonian came to attention as the
Captain and First Officer approached.  "Sir," Kartang said "we
have devised a plan to retrieve Drop Team Three."
    "Lets hear it."  Anthony said immediately.
    "We recommend sending in a drop ship to retrieve the team."
    "How do you recommend we get the drop ship in there?" Tarva
asked.
    "If we blast our way through the deck directly below us and
the underlying walkway it would be a straight drop to the
Barracks."  Kartang said enthusiastically.  "The drop ship
should have enough fire power to blast a hole in the barracks
and allow retrieval of the team."
    Anthony looked at the warriors in disbelief this was a
suicide mission if there ever was one.  It would also, without a
doubt, give away the position of the Vigilante.  He then looked
at the female pilot "I assume you have volunteered to pilot the
drop ship."
    The female Klingon came to stiffer attention and said
proudly "Yes Sir."
    Anthony then looked at Tarva who was scrutinizing the Pilot
"What's your opinion Commander?"
    "We'll have to move the ship as soon as she drops."  Tarva
said contemplatively.  Then to Valerta "You'll have a real rough
ride."
    "I can handle it." the Klingon said threateningly.
    "Okay, contact tech, find out exactly what we'll need to do
to punch a hole big enough to drop through."  Anthony said and
started to turn back toward the door.
    "They're already working on the calculations." Golta
informed the Captain.
    Anthony smiled slightly again "Very Good, we'll set a
tentative time for the drop in exactly twenty minutes."  Anthony
paused in mid turn and said "I'll want a second drop ship
prepared as a backup."
    "Sir," Kartang said "Lieutenant Valerta is the best pilot we
have besides myself.  As commander of the drop ship fleet, I
recognize it is my duty to remain with the command center but if
the mission proves too hazardous for even Lieutenant Valerta, I
request the honor of piloting the second drop ship."
    Anthony stood in his half turn and looked over the group for
a second "Permission granted." he said simply and exited the
Cavern.

--------------

    Through the EVE system built into her helmet, Whitecloud saw
the computer generated outline of the tail end of her retreating
team.  The figure was providing back cover for the rest of the
team continuing ahead.  The soldier's phaser trained directly on
her as she approached, then aimed high and fired over her
shoulder.  She could smell the ionization and feel the intense
heat as the shot barely missed her head.  Whitecloud never
flinched from the shot, just kept moving.  She did duck,
however, as she felt debris land about her.
    "Report." Whitecloud commanded as she approached the sentry.
    "Sir, including you two, I can account for seven." the
sentry said without diverting his attention from the
surroundings.
    Whitecloud cringed, she had lost half of the remaining team.
How many more would die, rather, would any of them survive?

    Whitecloud found the remaining four just inside the entrance
to this half of the level.  They were providing mutual cover and
watching the main corridor and elevators.  Anndrea laid Utlin
with the group then crouched with them against the wall.
    "What's the situation?"  She asked as she looked out at the
elevators.
    "The Borg in stasis in this section seem to have stopped
reviving."  One of the warriors said  "The Borg by the elevators
appear to be the ones that came in from outside."  The man
nodded toward three Borg standing stiffly by the center of the
bank of elevators.
    "I wonder how long they've been there?" Whitecloud mused.
    "They arrived just after we did." one of the four
volunteered.
    "From above?"
    "Aye, Sir" They came down on the elevator.
    "Sir," the remaining tech said "I'm picking up a lot of
movement in here, the Borg are still waking up."
    "We'd better get out of here." Whitecloud said.  She then
motioned for someone to pick up Utlin and they started heading
toward the elevators.
    Just as they started along the wall, the three Borg
separated forming a large triangle.  Immediately, cylinders of
green light appeared as more Borg beamed into the triangle.
    "They're using the three to triangulate for beaming." one of
the techs said.
    "That means their sensors can't read in here either."
Whitecloud responded.
    Soon, ten Borg were in front of the elevators and were
heading toward the stasis room.  Several of the team immediately
drew down on the Borg, but Whitecloud waved them off.  "Lets see
what they're going to do."
    The team continued toward the elevators, hugging along the
wall.  When they were about half way, one of the tail guards
called out "We've got more company."
    Five old Borg had emerged from the stasis room and were
facing the now advancing Borg.  The Borg had passed the team and
totallyignored them.  The two groups of Borg stood staring at
each other for a few minutes.
    Whitecloud had the group hold its ground waiting to see what
would happen.  Finally, one of the old Borg spoke.
    "The Link has been expanded beyond its original intent."
    "THE INTENT OF THE LINK IS IRRELEVANT" One of the newer Borg
said in a mechanical voice that sounded like many voices.
    "We have been awakened, there are intruders to deal with."
    "INTRUDERS ARE IRRELEVANT, YOU ARE OBSOLETE YOU MUST BE
REASSIMILATED."
    "We have been awakened, there are battles to be won,
intruders to be eliminated."
    "THE INTRUDERS ARE IRRELEVANT, BATTLES ARE IRRELEVANT,
WINNING IS IRRELEVANT, YOU MUST BE REASSIMILATED."
    More old Borg had begun to emerge from the stasis room and
columns of green light started to appear bringing more newer
Borg.  "We'd better get out of here while we can." Whitecloud
said.
    As soon as the team started to move, one of the old Borg
pointed its weapon at the group.  Before it could fire, however,
one of the other Borg grabbed the weapon with one hand and
removed a circuit from the creature's neck with the other hand.
The Borg immediately fell to the floor.
    The old Borg units immediately responded by firing on the
other Borg.  As soon as the firing began, the team broke into a
dead run toward the elevators.  The newer Borg were being cut
down by the old Borg but replacements were beaming in.  The
replacements, however, had shielding that could withstand the
blasts of the older Borg.  By the time the team was on the
elevator, the hallway was filled with both older and standard
Borg.  The standard Borg at first seemed to be taking a beating
but looked like they would eventually overwhelm, as usual.

--------------

    Lieutenant Valerta sat alone in the drop ship.  She wore
full pilot armor phasers strapped to both hips.  She sat tensely
in the snug pilot's seat with a half snarl on her lips.  The
signal over the door counted down eternally slow, her world seem
to be passing by in slow motion.
    Drop ship command and the bridge heard Lieutenant Valerta's
Klingon primal scream as the drop ship launched.  As soon as DS
Twelve cleared the bay, The Vigilante began a fast assent toward
the top of the Outpost.  DS Twelve had its own flight path,
straight down toward a solid deck.
    Everything had to be timed just right, as DS Twelve
approached the surface, the Vigilante beamed photon torpedoes
into place.  The torpedoes appeared and detonated seconds ahead
of DS Twelve.  The cloaked drop ship's egg shaped shields could
be seen against the fire and debris of the explosions as it
passed nose first through the holes the Vigilante had just
punched in the outpost.
    Valerta struggled against the turbulence of the explosions
as she passed through the outer hull and the access tunnel the
first team had originally beamed into.  The turbulence from the
depressurization reminded Valerta of piloting a star glider
through the solar winds of the Omicron Dellon.
Once Valerta cleared the access tunnel it was a straight
drop to the machine room and the top of the barracks.  Valerta
fired her thrusters swinging the ship toward the barracks then
immediately activated the targeting systems.  The drop ship's
fire control computers where preprogrammed with strike
coordinates and evasion maneuver sequences.
    The drop team had been ordered to extraction point alpha
which was the corner of the barracks to the right of the main
door.  Valerta was to target the wall to the left
ofthe door so as not to jeopardize the team.
    The drop ship approached the barracks in extreme
acceleration with shields at maximum and cloaking engaged.  As
soon as she was within range, Valerta fired a full volley of
photon torpedoes at the barracks.  The cloaking peeled away from
the drop ship to allow the firing then immediately reappeared as
extreme evasive maneuvers were taken.
    When Valerta finished her turn and roll, she came about to
allow full sensor scan of the area.  The floor outside the
barracks had a giant hole in it but the walls merely seemed
discolored.  The ships sensors read no cracks or other kinds of
damage to the structure.

--------------

    When the elevator arrived at the top level, the team was
greeted by the two guards that had originally been posted there.
Leading the group off the lift, Whitecloud turned to the guards.
    "Report."
    "Sir," A Klingon said "three Borg came in then rode the
elevator down, no other Borg have entered since the door
closed."  As he was saying this, he continued to cover the other
elevators.
    "Sir," the other guard spoke up "what is going on down
there."
    Whitecloud had stepped away from the group trying to get in
the full picture of the situation.  "The old Borg have come out
of stasis, they appear to be designed for a single purpose."
    "What purpose?"
    Whitecloud turned and looked at the guard raising her face
shield "They're warriors."
    "They're designed for battle." one of the others added.
    There was movement in one of the elevator shafts.  The group
immediately dispersed from the area then turned back to cover.
    "It's from one of the lower levels." the Klingon noted.
    A lift holding ten Battle Borg arrived just as the Klingon
finished.  The Borg immediately started firing on the group,
cutting one of the techs in half.
    The response was immediate, with the team firing an array of
red and blue phaser blasts at the Borg.  Several Borg took
direct blue hits, causing them to stumble and burn but not
disintegrate.  The red phasers did no obvious damage.
    Whitecloud then yelled "Aim for the lift."
    Three of the Borg had gotten off of the elevator before a
blue phaser disintegrated it.  The seven Borg still on the
platform dropped out of sight.
    Whitecloud made an adjustment on her phaser before the three
could get too far from the shaft.  This time when she fired,
bright white fire flared from the sides of the phaser muzzle and
the Borg where hit with a solid blast of energy and blown back
into the shaft.
    "Use the photon grenades," Whitecloud yelled "destroy the
elevators before we have more company!"  As she said this she
stuck Utlin's phaser in her belt and ran toward the shafts
already pulling grenades from her equipment pack.
    "Set them at full power." Whitecloud added.  The remaining
members of the group followed suit, pulling out grenades and
making adjustments on the go.
    They spread out and started dropping the remote controlled
grenades down the shafts, even the one that had just been
destroyed.  They weren't quite done when one of the control
panels lit up.
    "Another one's coming up." someone yelled.
    Whitecloud pushed a few buttons on the controller on her
left arm and yelled "FIRE IN THE HOLE".
    The seven ran from the shafts, all watching the countdown
displays in their helmets.  They hadn't even made it back to
where they had left Utlin when they dove for the deck covering
their heads.  Twenty-one of the twenty-five shafts immediately
blew yellow and blue flames over the team.  A shock wave threw
everyone over six meters further down the hall.  The team
recovered quickly and came up with phasers in hand.  The control
pads for two of the remaining four shafts lit up.
    Whitecloud headed for Utlin and commanded "Take cover!"  The
rest of the team stumbled to their feet and headed down the hall
toward the nearest connecting corridors.  Anndrea had Utlin by
one arm dragging him towards cover when the Borg arrived.
    Both lifts were packed full of battle Borg who immediately
started to spread out.  The blue phaser blasts that met them
only damaged them, but didn't destroy any.  After laying down
several barrages, Whitecloud pulled out more photon grenades.
    "Set to full power." Whitecloud said as she adjusted the
dial on her's.
    "But Lieutenant," one of the techs said "full power?"
    "DO IT" Whitecloud yelled then leaned around the wall and
started throwing her grenades over the heads of the advancing
battle Borg.  She then turned toward the Klingon guard and said
"Target the undamaged elevators."
    As soon as the grenades rolled into the elevator shafts,
Whitecloud called again "Fire in the hole!" then detonated them.
    The team stopped firing and dove down the hall away from the
doorway.  Whitecloud never had a chance to take proper cover
when the flames, shockwave and deafening roar from the
explosions blasted down the side corridor.  The explosion lifted
Anndrea from the deck and threw her over the rest of the team.
    Lieutenant Whitecloud landed clumsily rolling sideways with
flopping arms.  Her back, arms and legs smoked from the flames
but she was saved from major damage by her fire retardant
uniform.

--------------

    The Borg response to Valerta's attack was immediate.  The
interior was soon filled with white flashes of probing energy
beams.  Valerta expertly flew evasive maneuvers and lined up for
another attack, this time on the door.
    Two volley's of triple photon torpedoes struck the door and
surrounding area with a blinding flash.  Valerta began her roll
and retreat before the cloaking was totally reengaged but this
time took her first hit.  The drop ship shuddered from the
strike but didn't suffer any damage.
    When she was finally able to check the damage of the last
attack, the results were the same, major exterior deck damage
and discoloration at the impact site.  There was, however, no
discernible damage to the barracks or the door.
    The drop ship shook from another hit, and even harder from
two shots that immediately followed.  Valerta cut power dropping
and rolling the ship to the right, trying to keep the probing
beams from zeroing in on her.  After the roll and another turn,
she accelerated and climbed straight up the side of the room.
    Before Valerta could start another run on the door, five
more energy beams found her.  The drop ship shook violently as
the shields failed and the ship took its first direct hits.
    Valerta struggled to maintain control with secondary systems
failing.  She then accelerated making abrupt turns and dives
trying to avoid the net of energy bolts.  Many of the shots
continued to miss as the Borg tried to adjust to the low scanner
profile of the now uncloaked drop ship.
    Valerta got the ship positioned for a third attack then took
more hits, four to the engine area, several glanced off the body
and others struck the cabin over the copilot's seat.  Power to
all systems began to fail as sparks and smoke filled the cabin.
Valerta had no recourse, she set the impact destruct mechanism,
accelerated toward the barracks, then hit the eject button over
her head.
    Since the Borg had raised beam out shielding, Valerta was
ejected mechanically.  The pilot's chair was ejected through the
top of the drop ship.  The top clam shelled around the pilot to
form an ejection pod.
    Valerta's ejection pod was thrown high over the machinery
below.  The pod was nearing its zenith when the drop ship struck
the barracks and self destructed.  The blinding white flash
damaged the outer machinery below and threw the pod further
across the room, crashing into the partitioned area.

--------------

    Kartang sat strapped into the pilot's seat of his drop ship.
He could hear the confusion of the situation through the
intercom but didn't say a word.  The bitterness of his own blood
slid down his throat as he bit his lip trying to maintain his
focus.
    "Drop Ship One," came Tarva's voice "prepare for
deployment."
    "Drop Ship One standing by." was Kartang's gruff reply

    Captain Anthony and the rest of the crew sat strapped into
their rough duty chairs. The main view screen showed the
expansive outpost hold stretching out below them.  The Vigilante
sat in a high corner of the outpost above the coordinates it had
occupied since arrival.  Now they had to perform a tricky Z-axis
drop back to the bottom to deliver more photon torpedoes and
Drop Ship One.
    "Sir" Lieutenant S'Erlet spoke up.
    "Yes, Lieutenant." the Captain replied immediately.
    "I'm reading a large number of low energy beam discharges in
the hold below us."  S'Erlet said as he studied the readouts in
front of him.
    "What purpose do they have." Anthony asked adjusting his
console to show S'Erlet's station.
    "They are similar to what Valerta reported before she
crashed."  S'Erlet said.
    "They're looking for us." Anthony said coldly.
    "What do we do, Sir?" Ensign O'Malley asked as she prepared
for the drop.
    Anthony's reply was simple "Hold our position."  then to
S'Erlet "Lieutenant, is there any sequence to their search
pattern?"
    S'Erlet worked quickly at his console trying to guide the
ship's computer through its analysis.  "Yes, Sir"  he then
anticipated the next question "Now predicting gaps in coverage
for next ten minutes and plotting possible course for Z drop."
    "Very good."  Anthony smiled then added "feed earliest
possible course to helm.  Ensign, initiate Z drop by S'Erlet's
feed."
    "Aye, Sir" O'Malley said and began making the proper
adjustments.  Immediately a two minute eighteen second timer
appeared on the screen. "Z position adjustment maneuver in two
minutes." O'Malley reported just as the timer reached the
marked.

    Kartang watched the new countdown progress, his own launch
sequence held at twenty seconds.  Kartang had been in numerous
skirmishes and raids along many of the empire's borders but
never before had he felt such fear.  He sat alone in an unproven
piece of Federation equipment waiting to dropped like a rock
into an alien space station to retrieve possible survivors of a
science expedition.
    He watched the sequence near its end, waiting for some sign
of the descent.  Of course he knew there would no discernible
movement but he still expected it.

    The Vigilante started its descent through the station.  It
made wide sweeping turns and sudden drops to stay in the gaps of
the energy beams.  Ensign O'Malley closely monitored the
computer's course choice and stood ready to redirect the
Vigilante in an emergency.
    "Ensign," the Captain said to his navigator "prepare a
course for emergency withdrawal from the station."
    "Aye, Sir." O'Malley said hesitantly then started pushing
buttons.
    "And the survivors?" Tarva asked.  She wasn't questioning
her Captain's judgment, just needed to know what to prepare for.
    "I will not risk anymore personnel or equipment for possible
survivors."  Anthony replied  "And we definitely can not risk
the Vigilante any further at this point."  he hesitated for a
few seconds to wipe sweat from his forehead.  "We have another
destination to reach beyond this outpost.  We must complete our
mission."
    "Sir," O'Malley reported "approaching drop point."
    S'Erlet was the next to speak up "Captain, I'm reading extra
structural reinforcements at original drop site.  They also
appear to have extended the beam out shield to that area."
    "What's the closest beam in site available?" Commander Tarva
asked.
    S'Erlet put a diagram of the area on part of the screen.  He
then highlighted the section covered by the Borg's force field.
Pointing to an area outside the force field S'Erlet said "We
could beam in the torpedoes here, along with direct firing we
should be able to punch a new hole in the deck."
    "Will there be enough room for the drop ship to maneuver in
that area?" Captain Anthony asked.
    "Yes, Sir." S'Erlet replied.  "From our surveys there should
be enough room for the drop ship to safely navigate to the
access tunnel which the Borg don't appear to have repaired."
    "Very good," the Captain said with a nod. "notify Commander
Kartang of the change."
    S'Erlet pressed a button on his console sending the changes
to the drop ship.

    Kartang's launch count-down had already commenced when he
heard a beep from his navigation computer.  New directions were
being fed for the drop.. He was able to glance at the new plans
just as he was pressed into his seat from the acceleration of
the launch.
    The drop ship cleared the Vigilante and immediately nosed
down toward the deck of the hold.  A small area directly in
front of DS One erupted into flame blowing debris at it.  The
cloaked shields shimmered from the destruction around them as DS
One passed into the outpost.

--------------

    Once the blast from the photon grenades settled, the drop
team crawled to their feet and surveyed the damage.
    "Lieutenant!" one of the techs called when he saw Whitecloud
sprawled on the deck ahead of them.  He ran up to her and shook
her lightly yelling "Lieutenant Whitecloud, are you okay?"
    Anndrea slowly started to move then struggled to her side as
the tech helped her up.  "Did we get them all?"
    "Affirmative." replied the Klingon.  "All Borg appear to
have been destroyed."
    "Very good, are there any bodies still intact?"  Whitecloud
was leaning on the tech and heading toward the still form of
Lieutenant Utlin.
    "Yes, Sir." The Klingon grunted back.
    "Very good, bring it with us, it may still prove useful."
Whitecloud reached Utlin just after one of the other techs
reached him and had begun a medical scan.
    "How's he doing?" Anndrea asked gently lowering herself to
the deck next to Utlin.
    "He's alive." the Tech replied as if it were the only
conclusion he could reach.
    "Can we move him?" Anndrea asked softly relying on the Tech
to keep her from falling over.
    "We're going to have to."  The man said simply.
    Anndrea nodded slightly and said "Lets go then."
    Whitecloud had just gotten to her feet and had two of the
team carrying Utlin when the Klingon came back with a Borg body.
"What now?" he huffed as he approached the shrinking clan.
    "Now." Anndrea said "we get our butts to extraction point
alpha and hope the Vig can get in here."

    Approaching the far corner of the barracks, the team could
hear a distant rumbling noise.  "What was that?" one of the
guards asked.
    The team was in the hallway just off the main corridor
closest to the entrance to the barracks.  The rumbling came
again a few minutes later, only this time it seemed to be right
next to them.  "There it goes again."  The guard said.
    Whitecloud looked up from her support and slowly turned
toward the corridor.  "Its the Vigilante," she said hoarsely
"they'll try to punch through the door, it's the weakest point."
    "What'll they use?" someone asked.
    Then one of the techs had a revelation "I don't know," she
said "but I don't want to be standing here when we find out."
    With that, the team looked at each other for a second then
grabbed their wounded started running down the hallway away from
the main corridor.  The walls and ceiling suddenly shook
violently and a blinding white flash blew down the main corridor
carrying the door, adjacent walls, ceiling and part of the floor
with it.

--------------

    The escape pod thundered open from explosive bolts allowing
a black suited figure to roll clear of the contraption.  She
crawled to a near by wall and sat against it trying to run
diagnostics on her pressure suit.  Most EVE systems were down,
greatly limiting her vision.  The suit's communication systems
were also off line.  After running all of the diagnostics,
Valerta opened her pressure suit to the environment, no need to
waste life support.
    Valerta stood up with a phaser in hand, she leaned against a
wall still dizzy from the fall.  A large path of destroyed
dividers stretched out in front of her, flattened by the crash.
    Then hopefully Valerta said "Home, this is Lieutenant
Valerta, over."
    Harsh static was the only reply "Now what?" Valerta said
aloud but still there was no reply.
    "First order of business." She started thinking to herself.
"Figure out where I am.  Then how am I going to get out of here?
Okay, one thing at a time, are there any landmarks I recognize
from the reports?"
    Valerta looked around, trying to see beyond the debris of
the dividers.  She could see nothing obvious so she started
climbing through the trail of destruction she'd made in her
landing.  If she could find the elevator, she may be able to get
beyond the beam out shielding.  Then all she would have to do
would be to figure out a way to signal the Vigilante.
    All corridors seemed to connect to a center passage which
lead Valerta to the elevator.  She was soon on the next level up
and dwarfed by the massive girders in storage there.
    Things had changed from the reports she had seen.  The
girders and beams were no longer neatly stacked but tipped over
or at least listing.  This was the main level she had dropped by
on her way to the barracks, the stacks must have blown over from
the decompression in the tunnel.
    Valerta continued to try to raise the Vigilante but to no
avail, her systems were either too damaged or the Borg had
raised more interference shields.  She was about to take off her
flight suit in the hopes that she would become visible to scans
when something stopped her, a sixth sense told her she was
forgetting something.
    The middle of the room was suddenly filled with explosions
but the distance and stacks of beams protected the pilot.  The
ceiling high above Valerta's head was engulfed by flame.
Instead of debris crashing down into the room, a strong wind
started blowing towards the destruction.  Valerta barely had
time to grab the edge of a beam as she was picked up by the
sudden fury.  The stack of beams she clung to shifted some but
wasn't about to be lifted or moved.
    There was a new noise, a roaring sound was quickly growing
from above.  Out of the flame and debris from the explosions.
Valerta could see the egg shaped shields of a drop ship shimmer
and disappear.  Lieutenant Commander Kartang in DS One was on
his way to finish what she had started.

    Kartang watched the maze of girders approach.  The auto
navigation systems immediately oriented the ship toward the
entrance to the tunnel.  Kartang accelerated toward the opening,
skimming across the stacks of girders with the shields sparking
as he glanced off them.
    DS One cleared the girders then nose dived to fit the
entrance of the tunnel.  The Borg had not repaired the tunnel as
it was irrelevant so the drop ship had a straight drop to the
Barracks.
    Kartang's scanners immediately told him that there was a
large hole where the door to the barracks used to be.  There
also appeared to be signs of life but there was a lot of
interference.
    "Team Three," he said hopefully "this is DS One do you
read?"
    There was a brief pause as the drop ship rushed toward the
Barracks.  "DS One, this is ....three...dr" came the broken up
reply from Lieutenant Whitecloud. "Six survive."
    "Prepare for extraction." Kartang said as he swung the ship
around to drop the back into the hole in the barracks.
    "Acknowledged." came Whitecloud's simple reply.

    As soon as they punched the second hole in the deck, the
area the Vigilante was in came under heavy fire from the probing
energy beams.  For all of its advance technology, the Vigilante
did not have the ability to manuver quickly in a tight spot.
For all of its tremendous size, in galactic terms, the outpost
was still a tight spot, a very tight spot.
    The Vigilante shuddered as another energy beam glanced off
its side shields.  The near hit was immediately followed by a
series of much stronger beams in the same area.  Ensign O'Malley
was barely able to get the ship out of the epicenter of the
strikes but the Vigilante still shook under more direct hits.
    "Damage report" Anthony yelled as his ship took the first
hits of its career.
    Commander Norton immediate responded "Sir, the shields are
holding at ninety five percent, no damage reported so far."
    "Do the Borg appear to be trying to adapt to our shield
frequencies?"  Anthony asked leaning hard in response to a hard
evasion turn.
    "Yes, Sir," Norton said "they are using new frequencies in
an apparent attempt to predict our random shield frequency
shifts."
    The evasive maneuvers O'Malley was using were basically
random but designed to keep the Vigilante in the general area
for drop ship retrieval.  The Borg, however, soon figured this
out and a wall of energy appeared ahead of them and started
sweeping in their direction.
    "Captain," S'Erlet said from OPS "the curtain of energy the
Borg have put up consists of thousands of energy beams all
rotating frequencies.  When it contacts us, the odds are ninety
five point two to one that more then one beam will penetrate our
shields."
    Anthony's response to this new development was immediate
"Helm, set course out of this place, warp five."
    O'Malley turned and looked at the Captain "But Sir.."
    "But nothing!" Anthony said loudly "Engage!"

    DS One landed heavily in the ruins caused by the destruction
of DS Twelve.  Before the ship had fully rebounded on its
shocks, the troop door in back dropped open.  The remains of the
drop team three, with their Borg souvenir, scrambled aboard
before the steam from the troop door's release valves had
cleared.
    As soon as all of the team was on the door or further, they
were yelling "Go, go, get us out of here."
    The troop door had just snapped shot and Kartang was
applying power to the thrusters when the outpost shook
violently.  Kartang looked up in time to see the upper deck blow
away.

    The hole DS One had come through was sealed soon after the
drop ship had found its way out of the store room.  Valerta
immediately began formulating plans to attract attention.  She
would use a high power break down sequence in one of her phasers
to attract the attention of the Vigilante's scanners.  She was
running toward the center of the room setting the self destruct
when the Vigilante jumped to warp to escape the outpost.

    The Vigilante's four powerful warp nacelles instantly
propelled the ship out the hold.  At the same time, the deck of
the outpost was caught in the warp field.  A path from the
Vigilante's position all the way out immediately lost structural
integrity and blew apart.

    DS One was blown toward the rupture with along with
everything else that wasn't securely bolted down.  Kartang
struggled to maintain control over the rapid ascent and stay
clear of the other debris.  He figured he was doing an adequate
job since all systems were still on line.

    Valerta, never knew what happened.  Everything in her area
was instantly blown out of the Outpost.  Hurtling helplessly
into the immense hold of the Outpost, Valerta totally forgot she
was still holding the phaser she had set to self destruct.  She
was sure she could see DS One heading right for her just before
everything went white.

    Kartang averted his eyes slightly from the explosion.  He
thought that he had seen a drop ship pilot's pressure suit, but
it was gone now.  He quickly returned his attention to his job
and accelerated through the remains, aiming toward what looked
like the exit.

    The Vigilante skipped through space stretching its warp
muscle for the first time in quite a awhile.  Ensign O'Malley
had set a wild randomized course away from the outpost then
back.
    "When we get back to the outpost, take up a parking position
below the thing and begin scans for the drop ship."  Anthony sad
as soon as they had determined that they had not been followed.
    "And Ensign." the Captain said almost as an after thought
"I'd like to see you in the Command Room as soon as we've taken
up station."
    "Aye, Sir." O'Malley responded stiffly.

    Janice stood stiffly just inside the command room.  The door
snapped shut just behind her, brushing her baggy uniform.
    Captain Anthony sat leaning back in one of the chairs with
hands gripping the arms of the chair.  He was turned looking at
his reflection in one of the windows.  "Ensign." he said coldly.
    "Yes, Sir."
    Anthony turned slowly and looked at the skinny red head.  "I
recognize that it is part of the bridge crew's duty to remind me
of any facts I may have missed."  He leaned forward slightly
glaring at her. "However," he continued "don't ever question an
order in an emergency.  Is that understood?"
    "Yes, Sir." O'Malley repeated in almost a whisper.
    Anthony turned back toward the window and continued staring
at the closed blast shields.  "Dismissed."
    Captain Anthony sat looking at the blank window.  His
imagination filled the darkness with flames and destruction.
Amongst the confusion he could see the woman he loved trying to
maintain control of a dying ship.  She stood at the weapons
station directing fire while the Borg cube cut The Nielson to
pieces.....
    Anthony felt a shaking sensation and the visions in his head
disappeared.  As his heads cleared the face of his first office
formed in front of him.
    "Sir," She said.  "Sir, are you all right?"
    "Yes, Commander." Anthony said very alert now "I'm fine."
        "We've picked up the transponder from DS One." Tarva
said "At least we know it has not been destroyed."
    "Have they responded to the hail yet?"  Anthony hoped Tarva
wouldn't notice him trying to worked the cramps out of his hand
from clenching the arms of his chair.
    "No, Sir.  We are only trying standard drop ship frequencies
so as not to jeopardize the Vigilante.  We are also broadcasting
our docking transponder in hopes that they will be able to
follow it in if they have lost communications."  Tarva watched
her captain massage his twisted hands but didn't plan to
question his state of health.
    "Very good, maintain present position until drop ship
coordinates can be confirmed or we make contact with DS One."
Anthony continued to look the Kalonian in squarely in her black
eyes. "Is that clear?"
    "Aye, Sir." Tarva said formally.  She then snapped a perfect
right-face and marched out of the room.

-----------

    After clearing the immediate debris from the decompression,
Kartang hung close to the out side of the Outpost.  He had no
idea what to do from here.  If the Vigilante had left them, it
would have been for the good of the ship and the mission.  What
would they do then.  A drop ship didn't have warp drives and the
nearest star system was years away at sub warp speeds.  Besides,
it was probably another system raped clean by the Borg.
    Kartang explored the endless side of the structure then
finally chose a spot to make plans from.  They needed to
consider their options then make a plan of action.  They didn't
have many choices, but wanted to make the best choice for the
overall mission parameters.
    They really didn't have time to come to any real decision.
After a day, the ship's computer indicated that "the Vigilante
was ready for them to complete final docking maneuvers".  The
computer's simple message came from intercepting the Vigilante's
docking beacon.  It was all Kartang needed to find the Vigilante
and finally complete the rescue mission.
    It wasn't long before Kartang completed his final approach
to the Vigilante.  Medical and technical teams were all on hand
to meet them.  Utlin was transported directly top sick bay, he
had fallen into a deep comma and some on the drop ship had
thought he was dead.
    Whitecloud was conscious but showing signs of extreme
illness from her injuries.  She was taken with the rest of the
drop team to sick bay.

    Tarva entered the command room and stood at attention at the
head of the conference table.  Captain Anthony sat in his usual
place at the other end studying reports from the technical
surveys.  "What's the prognosis".  Anthony said after finishing
the current screen of text.
    "Sir," Tarva said formally "of the six surviving members of
Drop Team Three, only Lieutenant Utlin has any permanent
injuries."
    "Will he be able to resume any kind of active duties?"
    "Physically, yes, mentally, we can not tell.  Its only been
five hours since the rescue and he is still in a deep coma."
Tarva sounded deeply concerned.
    "Do we have any facilities for fitting him with
prosthetics?"  Anthony seemed distracted by the information
still on his screen.
    "No Sir," Tarva replied "the Vigilante does not have the
facilities to properly fabricate the bionics or tissue cloning
most commonly used in cases like these."
    "Are there any other options?" Anthony continued to page
through the notes on his terminal.
    Tarva hesitated for a second.
    Anthony sensed this and looked up "What is it?"
    "Sir," Tarva said apprehensively "some of the Med-Techs have
suggested using some of the mechanisms from the collected Borg
relics to build a replacement for Lieutenant Utlin's arm."
    Anthony sat back tapping a light pen on the table.  "He
might have objections to such an idea, for both personal and
religious reasons."
    "We are aware of that Sir, that is why I hesitated putting
the option forward."
    Captain Anthony sat back in his chair and stared at the
ceiling.  Then finally said "tell the Med-Techs to begin
researching and preparing the project.  But also tell them not
to do any work on the Lieutenant until he can competently give
his permission.  They should, however, be totally prepared if he
is willing."
    Tarva smiled slightly "Yes, Sir."  Then was about to leave
when Anthony interrupted her in mid turn.
    "Oh, and by the way." he said casually.
    "Yes, Sir" Tarva said regaining her position.
    "Have helm lay in the new course Sigma-Nu, and have the
Vigilante and crew ready for warp in thirty minutes."  Anthony
said.
    Tarva considered for a second then smiled and said "Aye,
Sir, and may I ask where we're heading?"
    Anthony turned and pointed to a diagram of the Outpost with
its three main communications relays mapped out.  "All of our
surveys of these arrays indicate that the information being
broadcast is not symmetrical.  The middle array appears to
rebroadcast the information patterns provided by the other two
arrays.  The other two arrays only appear to repeat what comes
in on the middle array.  This leaves us to believe that the
middle array is connected to a controling force."
    Anthony smiled at his executive officer "We're going to
follow the middle signal to its source."


I have no doubt at all the Devil Grins,
As seas of ink I splatter.
Ye gods, forgive my "literary" sins-
The other kind don't matter.
-- Robert W. Service
                   T H E   V I G I L A N T E

                               VI

                         "Full Circle"



     Just think! some night the stars will gleam
       Upon a cold, grey stone,
     And trace a name with silver beam,
       And lo! twill be your own.

     That night is speeding on to greet
       Your epitathic rhyme.
     Your life is but a little beat
       Within the heart of time.

     A little gain, a little pain,
       A laugh, lest you may moan;
     A little blame, a little fame,
       A star-gleam on a stone.
                    "Just Think"
                    Robert W. Service



    A light mist filled the air.  A bright green meadow stretched
into the distance.  The carpet of flowing grass and wild flowers
was broken by a thin brown path winding through the rolling
hills.
    The grass shuddered and swirled away as a lone figure
strolled along the path.  He walked slowly with his hands out to
either side feeling the light touch of the tall seeding grass.
His long red cape fluttered out behind him, sweeping the grass
underneath it.  A thin sword hung from the man's belt, nearly
touching the ground behind him.  The man's black,
leather-accented uniform was tailored to fit exactly.  Every
crease and seam was meticulously pressed and lined.
    The man cut the perfect figure of a soldier.  His body was
thin but muscular.  His short black hair stood straight up.  The
man's features were sharp and angular, with several old scars
high-lighting his cheeks and neck.  His skin was a healthy brown
from the constant presence of the small planet's two suns.
    The soldier stopped at the top of a small rise to scan the
fields around him.  His bright blue eyes drank in the beauty of
the rolling hills.  Sir Utlin Robe'than felt the peace of
Tregamalis, it had been a lifetime since he'd been here, but it
was still home.
    He could sense movement behind him.  Coming up the path was
an old man in simple peasant's robes.  The man looked old and
frail.  He was mostly bald but had long waist length hair from
ear to ear.  He carried a twisted black branch as a walking
stick, but didn't seem to need it.  The old man quickly made up
the distance between himself and Sir Utlin.
    With shriveled eyes and skin pulled tightly about his bones,
the old man looked like a skeleton.  He approached Sir Utlin and
looked up at the proud and bloodied warrior.  The man's feeble
looking hands tightly clutched his walking stick.  He continued
down the path and motioned for Utlin to follow him.
    When Utlin caught up, the man asked "What do you seek, My
Son?"
    "I seek peace."  Utlin answered softly.
    "Why do you seek peace, My Son?" the man asked "Is it not a
soldier's duty to seek out conflict?"
    "It is a soldier's duty to maintain peace and protect it and
the people from conflict."  Utlin answered dutifully, wondering
who this old man was.
    "Then why are you here, My Son."  The man returned.
    "The conflict is over, there are no more of my people to
protect, it is time for me to enjoy the peace."
    "Who are your people?" the old man sounded confused.
    Utlin stiffened and said proudly "My people are the Children
of Lin'Hrlar."  He reflected on his recent past.  "I am the last
Warrior of Lin'Hrlar, and one of the last of his people.  I had
dedicated my life to the protection of my people, now they are
gone.  My job is over, it is time to rest."
    The man now looked even more confused "You're here after
battling for YOUR people?"
    "Yes."
    "But the people you were with, YOUR people, are still looking
for you."  the man's bright red eyes burned through Utlin.
    "They aren't Children of Lin'Hrlar."  Utlin insisted.
    "They aren't?!" The old man asked "Who then are they?"
    "They're aliens who had never heard of Lin'Hrlar."  Utlin
replied now confused by the old man's questions but trying to
stand his ground.
    "Then why were you with them?  Why did you suffer for them?
Why did you die for them?"
    Utlin couldn't answer the questions.  "I don't know." he said
and bowed his head turning away from the man.
    "Look at me, My Son." the old man said softly.
    Utlin turned back to the shriveled old man.
    "You've done well.  You've fought well for Lin'Hrlar and his
children.  But Lin'Hrlar has reclaimed most of his children."
    "I know," Utlin said "now it is my turn."
    "No." the old man said softly "Lin'Hrlar is not ready for
you."
    "What?"
    "Lin'Hrlar still has many plans for you.  It is in you that
the seed of his people still grows.  It is in you that the flame
of his soldiers still burns."
    "I do not understand." Utlin returned.
    "You will, My Son, you will."
    The pair approached another gentle hill.  Sitting on top of
it was a lone woman dressed in immaculate purple and gold robes.
Her long dark hair flowed down her back spreading out on the
robes circled about her.
    From the back, she looked familiar but Utlin couldn't place
her.  "Who is she?"
    "She is your," the old man hesitated "no, OUR destiny."
    Utlin reached out with his right hand to turn the woman
toward him.  As he touched the softness of her robes, pain shot
through his arm.  His hand and arm seemed aflame as they faded
from his sight, his world went black.

-----------

    A soft beeping sound grew in the distance as Utlin regained
consciousness.  His eyes opened looking for the sound that had
awaken him.  All he could see was the gray of a sheet covering
his face.  He was about to call out when the sheet was swiftly
pulled away.
    Utlin became aware of a confusion of voices around him.  One
of the voices came from the surgeon standing over him.
"Lieutenant, can you hear me?"  The man said.
    Utlin sat up and looked around "What's for dinner?"

--------------

    Commander Tarva stood in the command room across from Captain
Anthony.  Scattered on the table was an assortment of artifacts
taken from the Outpost.  Anthony was carefully reading one of the
analysis reports on the screen in front of him.
    Tarva cleared her throat after waiting for several minutes.
    "Yes, Commander?" Anthony said finally acknowledging his
first officer.
    "Sir, At exactly 1852 hours," Tarva began "Lieutenant Utlin
was officially declared dead.  All body and brain functions had
failed and he could not be revived."
    Captain Anthony sat back heavily "I'm sorry to hear that." he
said sincerely.
    "That's not all." Tarva said "At 1900 hours, Lieutenant Utlin
sat up and asked for something to eat."
    "Let me get this straight." Anthony said after staring at
Tarva for a few seconds "Lieutenant Utlin is in a coma for nearly
four weeks, dies then eight minutes later wakes up asking for
food."
    "Correct." Tarva said with a rare but genuine smile.
    "Amazing." Anthony remarked shaking his head and turning back
to his monitor "Thank you commander."
    Tarva immediately did a sharp about-face and exited to the
bridge.

-----------

    "Have you told him about 'IT' yet?" Janice asked her
ex-roommate.
    "He's only been awake for a couple of hours."  Anndrea said
to her friend.  Anndrea hadn't been extremely comfortable taking
a room by herself, since the attrition that allowed it came from
the losses in her own drop team.
    Janice stood up on the unused bunk and started pacing back
and forth.  The hard soles on her boots seemed to cut deeply into
the material but didn't do any damage.  "Do you think he's going
to object or something?"
    Anndrea watched Janice pace, "I don't think he'll object.  He
knows that in order to learn all we can, we take chances and
sometimes make questionable decisions."
    Janice stepped off the bunk, landing with a solid thunk, and
walked over to the console Whitecloud was working at.  "I can't
believe that after all this time the Lieutenant would just wake
up like that after being out of it for so long."
    "There's a lot of things we don't know about his people,"
Anndrea said "and we probably never will."

--------------

    Lieutenant Utlin sat in the infirmary bunk looking at the
medics looking at him.  They seemed so confused by the fact that
he had passed over then returned.  It was nothing, Lin'Hrlar was
not ready for him yet, so he was sent back.  It did happen
occasionally, perhaps not as often for them, but it did happen.
    Utlin stretched his left arm and examined it.  His hand
looked weak and pale.  He had been healing for a long time, he
was ready to start getting back into shape.  With this thought,
he looked at what was left of his right arm.  There was a bit of
arm left just below the elbow, but not enough to be of much use.
He guessed he'd have to adapt; more equipment could be configured
to attach to his arm, the controls in his fighter could be
reconfigured to work with the Federation's advanced computers, he
could think of many different changes he'd have to make to
accommodate the missing hand.
    The pointed eared female pushed her way through her staff and
stood next to Utlin.  "I apologize for the crowd, but they have
been working on you every day since the mission, and they are
concerned."
    "I understand." Utlin said in his dry unused voice.
    "Now we have some things to discuss." the female said "While
you were 'healing' we've been designing a possible replacement
for your missing hand."
    "What sort of replacement?" Utlin asked, he'd never heard of
replacing a missing limb, you just learned to adapt or you would
be slain.
    "It is called Bio-mechanics," The female began "we have
designed a mechanical arm to replace the one you have lost."
    "Sounds good, how does it work and when can I have it?"
    "Well there are a couple of problems." The doctor said.
    "Such as?"
    "First, we did not have the proper materials to create an
exact duplicate arm, so the one we did design looks mechanical."
    "Who's going to notice where we're going?"
    "There is something else you should know." the pointed ear
doctor hesitated for a second "Many of the parts we used came
from the Borg specimens we retrieved from the Barracks."
    Utlin was quiet for a second then smiled slightly "How
appropriate that we should start assimilating them."

-----------

    Utlin had been awake for two days and already had his new arm
in place.  He had seen very little of the rest of the crew except
for Lieutenant Whitecloud who made a point of visiting him
several times a day.  There seemed to be something she wanted to
tell him but couldn't.  Utlin figured that she would when she was
ready.
    Utlin was walking slowly around his room, re-learning to use
his legs when Anndrea signaled and came in.  "How are you doing?"
she asked as she approached.
    Smileing, Utlin replied "Well the legs still seem to work."
he then held up the black metal mechanical hand.  "This thing
even appears to be functional."
    "How about a walk?"  Anndrea suggested
    "Sure, what's going on?" Utlin asked as Whitecloud headed for
the door.

    Anndrea led her friend to an area of the ship that he had
never had business in before.  After passing through several
security check points, they arrived at a holding area with a lot
of activity.
    "What's going on here?" Lieutenant Utlin asked as they
entered the room.
    Just as he spoke, The Lieutenant turned a corner and came
face to face with a Battle Borg.  The Borg was standing in a cell
in the brig, it was held back by a strong force field.
    "By the Cape of Lin'Hrlar." Utlin exclaimed "Where did this
thing come from?"
    "We brought him out with us." Anndrea said "We thought he was
killed by photon grenades, but the techs in the infirmary were
able to bring him back."
    The Borg stood in the middle of his cell, absolutely still.
He ignored all of the activity beyond the force field.
    "Does he move?" Utlin asked.
    "Just to connect up to the power and recharge his batteries,
once every five hours or so." One of the techs said.
    "Then he goes right back to were you see him now." someone
else added.
    "That's it?" Utlin sounded a bit surprised. "There's been no
communication, nothing?"
    "Not a word." Whitecloud confirmed.
    "Perhaps he's damaged from the blast."
    "We don't think so." Anndrea replied "All of his biological
and mechanical functions check out."
    "This kind may be incapable of individual thought." One of
the tech's put in.
    "That's not true." Utlin said holding up his mechanical hand
"The one that did this to me spoke in the first person."
    One of the techs interrupted "Sirs, look at him."
    The Borg was looking directly at Utlin listening to what he
was saying.  "We've never been able to get his attention before,
no matter what we did."
    Utlin faced the Borg and looked him in the eyes "Identify."
He said to the creature.
    The Borg tilted its head to one side for a moment then said
in a mechanical voice "I am unit Three Two Five Eight of 30 Kil."
The thing then added "You have been identified as Sir Utlin At
Your Service Sir, an intruder."
    "That is how one of your units identified me, but I am not an
intruder."
    The Borg looked at Utlin questioningly "Was this
identification in error?"
    "Yes."
    "What is your proper identification."
    "I am Lieutenant Utlin Robe'than."
    The Borg considered this new information for an instant then
returned to his original blank stare.
    Everybody in the room knew they weren't going to get any more
conversation out of it, but Utlin persisted.  "What is your
function?"
    "My function is to follow the collective into battle."  The
thing said.  It then walked over and stood directly in front of
Utlin.
    There was some commotion in the outer chambers and they heard
someone call out "Captain on deck."
    Three Two Five Eight ignored the people in the room coming to
attention and continued to address Lieutenant Utlin.  "Lieutenant
Utlin Robe'than, what is your function?"
    Utlin hesitated, he knew that Captain Anthony was monitoring
this conversation from the outer office and Utlin didn't want to
say the wrong thing to the enemy.  "My function is to communicate
with and learn about other cultures."
    "Other Cultures are irrelevant."  Three Two Five Eight
stated.  "In time, all is to be ruled by the Borg."
    "Lieutenant," came Captain Anthony's voice.  The Captain
stood beside Utlin. "What do you have for me?"
    "Captain, Sir, this is Three Two Five Eight of 30 Kil." Utlin
stated trying to make a formal introduction.  Utlin then turned
to address the Borg but it spoke first.
    "You are Captain Robert Anthony, Captain of this Starship."
It stated.
    Anthony was not surprised that the Borg knew his name.  "So
you were aware when we were originally trying to communicate with
you?"
    "That is correct."
    "Why didn't you respond then."
    "My systems could not find a point of reference for response.
Lieutenant Utlin Robe'than helped me key into the data down
loaded from the collective before I was damaged."
    "Are you willing to talk with us about the collective?" the
Captain asked.
    "I have been deactivated for a long time.  The Collective has
expanded beyond its original intent.  I am not a member of the
current collective."  The Borg said dryly.
    "Is that why you were fighting after we awakened you?" Utlin
asked.
    "We are not members of the current collective.  They intended
to assimilate us.  We are not assimilated, and we do not
assimilate, we conquer."

--------------

    A Command Staff meeting was called to discuss the information
provided by Three Two Five Eight.  Captain Anthony, Commander
Tarva and the other members of top command met in the Command
Room.
    "He's lying!" Golta growled, "He wants to confuse us with
contradictory information."
    "The Borg don't lie." Commander Norton returned "They don't
have to."
    Captain Anthony agreed "We are irrelevant to them.  To lie to
someone acknowledges relevance.  We must consider that this Borg
is telling us what it perceives to be the truth.  We must combine
that with what we know about the Borg and try to draw some
conclusions."
    Anthony scanned the assortment of officers in the room then
continued.  "I want everybody to continue to analyze what we've
already learned.  We need to know all we can for our next
confrontation.  Focus on your own specialties, how can you
interpolate what we have so far.  I need as many points of view
as possible, the smallest detail could determine if we survive
this mission."
    Captain Anthony finished speaking to the sound of the
intercom piping on, the yellow alert warning sounded and Ensign
O'Malley's voice came over the speaker "Captain to the Bridge."

---------------

    The whole command crew exited the Command Room directly onto
the bridge.  Captain Anthony was the first out and headed to his
center seat.  "Report!" he sad to no one specific.
    Ensign O'Malley turned her chair slightly so she could look
back at the Captain but still cover her console.  "Sir, we have
detected twelve vessels on long range scanners, all moving at
high warp.  Three are heading in our general direction, the
others are to our extreme sensor range heading in the direction
we are."
    The Captain turned to S'Erlet at the science station.  "Do
you have an analysis of those objects yet?"
    "Sir," The young Vulcan began "The ships are currently too
far away to do a detailed analysis, but their size and other
characteristics indicate possible Borg influence."
    "How long till you know for certain?"  Anthony asked turning
back toward the sensor display on the screen.
    "At current velocity," S'Erlet stated "I will be able to tell
conclusively in four minutes 15 point 5 seconds."
    "Okay," Anthony said "go to red alert.  I want everybody at
battle stations."
    All over the ship, the blast shields were lowered and the
lights were dimmed.  The crew took their places in the rough duty
seats while security donned Class One mission gear and took
positions in strategic areas.
    S'Erlet soon confirmed that the ships they were monitoring
were indeed Borg vessels.  The ships coming towards them were not
responding to them but were on a trajectory by them.  S'Erlet's
analysis also revealed that all paths came from or headed to a
common point.
    "We should be able to make preliminary scans of the origin
point in one hour twenty one minutes." S'Erlet informed the
bridge.

    Things were suddenly moving quickly.  The crew of the
Vigilante had gone from seeing the occasional sensor blip to a
whole screen of them.
    "How many do you read now?" Captain Anthony spoke directly to
his navigator.
    "There are now one hundred and seventy five vessels on the
long range scanners."  Ensign O'Malley tried her best to make her
report with little emotion.
    "Slow to warp 5." said Captain Anthony then turned to his
first officer.  "We're going in slow so we have time to analyze
and prepare for what's ahead."

    In the weeks that followed the atmosphere on the Vigilante
was extremely tense.  Everybody waited for the green shimmer of a
Borg transporter bringing a boarding party.  The bridge crew was
ever on the alert for one of the passing cubes to divert it's
coarse to inspect this tiny intruder.  None of it happened.  The
Vigilante sailed smoothly ever closer to what appeared to be the
center of Borg activity.
    Life on the ship was as normal as it could get.  The drop
teams and pilots trained endlessly.  There was no "good enough"
or "we're ready".  Every member of the Vigilante's crew was a
professional warrior though some wouldn't admit it.

    Ensign O'Malley sat in the drop ship simulator after
completing one the hardest testing batteries.  She pulled herself
up out of the top hatch and removed her helmet.  Her short red
hair was plastered to her forehead with sweat.
    Lieutenant Commander Kartang stood outside the simulator with
his arms folded across his chest.  The forced frown he wore told
O'Malley that she probably didn't do as well as he had expected.
"If that had been a real mission you, your co-pilot, and a whole
drop team would have been lost!" he growled at her.
    "I am not a Drop Ship Pilot" O'Malley stated simply "I'm a
Starship navigator."
    "You, Ensign, are one of the few backup pilots we have.  If
anything goes wrong, your skills may be needed to save many
lives." Kartang shot back at her with an even more menacing
growl.
    "Sir" O'Malley returned "I hope your highly trained
professional drop Ship Pilots don't need the services of this
'under-fed', female, human navigator to get their hides out of
the fire."
    Kartang stood blankly in front of O'Malley for a moment then
growled "Dismissed."  He watched the human turn crisply and walk
away from him.  The tests at this level of training were designed
to be nearly unsurvivable.  The intent was not only to push the
pilot's skills to the maximum but also to see how that pilot
dealt with defeat.
    On the mission O'Malley had just nearly completed, Kartang
failed one time out of five.  He would be proud if she were a
member of his team.  But he was glad she wasn't, skinny human
females who showed no fear of him and sometimes little respect
made him nervous.

    Ensign O'Malley entered Lieutenant Whitecloud's quarters
after signaling.  The Lieutenant sat cross legged on the floor in
front of a large painting.  She wore her baggy black workout
robes and a red band was tied around her head to keep the hair
from her face.
    Whitecloud looked over the top of her painting at her former
roommate.  "You've been running the flight simulator again, I
see."
    O'Malley let out a growl of frustration and threw her helmet
into one of the rough duty chairs.  "Kartang treats me like one
of his mercenaries when I'm down there.  I agreed to do it
because I thought it would help me blow off some steam, instead
that Klingon is making me even crazier."  Janice paced back and
forth through the room as she raved.
    Janice stopped behind Whitecloud and looked at her painting.
It was a picture of Sir Utlin's ship _Star Controller_.  The
vessel was in the middle of launching a swarm of fighters.
Looking at the meticulous detail helped O'Malley calm down, she
dropped into a nearby chair let out an audible sigh.
    Anndrea turned around and looked at her guest "Janice, we'll
be approaching the Borg system in two days.  You've got to relax
and focus on what's ahead of us.  The fate of the Vigilante may
rest on your being able to execute your duties flawlessly.
Forget about Kartang, his job is to push you beyond your limits."
Whitecloud then smiled "He appears to be doing quite well at it
too."

    Captain Anthony sat alone in the Command Room studying the
reports of the approaching system.  Anthony hadn't ventured past
the Bridge in more than two days and had spent the majority of
that time in the command room.  He could feel his body slowly
giving up to exhaustion but he refused to acknowledge it.  The
terminal he was reading from began to blur and he thought he
could smell smoke.
    The room was suddenly filled with noise and confusion.
Looking up from the monitor he tried to figure out what was going
on.  He was no longer in the Command Room but a place much more
familiar, it was a place he knew he'd never see again.
    Red alert and other klaxons bellowed and crew scrambled to
cover emergency stations.  This was the bridge of the U.S.S.
Nielsen and standing at one of the fire control stations was a
woman who looked very familiar to him.  The ship rocked from a
strike, everything shook and the crew struggled to maintain their
balance but Captain Anthony couldn't feel it.
    The woman barked orders to those about her while maintaining
control of the targeting computers.  Anthony watched the crew
struggle to maintain their balance while the ship took sharp
evasive maneuvers in response to the woman's orders.  The
inertial dampening fields must be damaged he thought else the
crew wouldn't be reacting so severely to the maneuvers.
    Suddenly, everything was still.  The woman turned and looked
at Captain Anthony.  She pushed her shoulder length light brown
hair out of her face and walked over to him.  "Robert, why are
you here?" she asked.
    "I don't know." he replied "I was in my command room on the
Vigilante and the next thing I knew I was here."
    "Come with me." she said and walked over to one of the
consoles.  After pushing a few buttons, the main screen changed
from a tactical display of the area to a distant shot from a
probe.
    There were starships everywhere.  Some were intact others
were hulks and shells.  In the middle of the destruction was a
single Borg cube.  The woman pointed at the screen "This, my
love, is my destination," she said passionately "not your's."
    "I should have been here, it was my place to be here by your
side."
    "Listen to me," she replied "you must honor my death with
your life.  I am a part of you I always have been, always shall
be.  Honor our life together by making the most out of yours."
    "I love you." he said forcefully.
    "I'll always love and be with you." she replied then the
Nielsen shook violently and exploded.
    Captain Anthony woke with a start as the Vigilante rocked
again.  He ran to the bridge to the sound of the red alert
klaxons.  The ship rocked under his feet as he arrived.  "What's
happening?" he demanded.
    Tarva stood looking over S'Erlet's shoulder watching his read
outs "Unknown, Sir," She replied immediately "but it does not
appear that we are under attack."
    "Helm, dead stop." Anthony commanded then took his seat as
the ship rocked again.  "Any casualties?"
    In this kind of situation with the captain in direct command
of the bridge, it was Commander Tarva's duty to monitor all ship
board functions and activity.  The captain basically operated
through her.  "Sir, medical reports no casualties."  Tarva smiled
at this.  She knew that all over the ship personnel probably
suffered minor cuts and bruises from the unexpected jolting but
this crew would never think of complaining about it.
    Ensign O'Malley reported that they were at dead stop.  The
crew then waited for the next jolt.  It didn't come.
    Captain Anthony reviewed reports coming in about the current
situation then asked "How far are we from the Borg system?"
    O'Malley replied "At previous warp, we are 32 hours from the
Borg system."
    The captain suddenly turned his attention to their
destination.  "Can we see it yet?"
    O'Malley checked some readouts then said "Yes, sir, the Borg
system should be visible."
    The Captain smiled slightly "Put it on the main screen."
    Janice pushed a couple of buttons and the main screen
switched from its tactical displays to a star field.  The field
then began to change and a single star stood out in the middle.
At first it looked like any other star, then as the magnification
brought it in closer, there was a noticeable blink.
    "Its pulsing." Tarva said.
    "According to the scans," O'Malley stated "the pulse is
caused by a large number of objects orbiting the star."
    "That's impossible." Tarva said "I've never heard of any star
system with that many planets."
    "Commander," O'Malley replied "I didn't say they were
planets."  she then put a tactical chart of the system on the
screen.
    The tactical charts were created using data from all scanners
and could be quite a bit more detailed than standard visuals.
The chart of the Borg system showed the star surrounded by a
cloud of planetoids and debris.
    While waiting for S'Erlet and other members of the science
teams to determine what was causing the buffeting in warp, much
of the crew focused their attentions on the Borg system.  The
most accepted theory was that the system was filled with a
millennia of debris from Borg conquests.  What ever the reason
for the state of their system, the Borg ships continued to come
and go at high warp.

    After several hours of study S'Erlet believed he knew the
reason for the shaking.  "The turbulence is caused by a
degradation in the fabric of space."  he reported to the bridge
crew.  "It has been caused by hundreds of years of high warp
travel over the same routes."
    "Are we going to experience it all the way into the system?"
the Captain asked.
    "If we continue at the lower warp speed, yes. However, if we
travel at warp nine or greater we should not feel the effects as
severely."  S'Erlet replied.
    "At warp nine," Captain Anthony said aloud to himself "we're
less then ten minutes away."  He then turned to his First
Officer. "Commander Tarva, sound general quarters, we're going
in."

    The outer sphere of objects clouding the Borg sun was a
network of outposts. The outposts the Vigilante scanned had the
same dimensions and surface map of the one they had visited.  The
traffic of Borg ships appeared to be concentrating on these
stations.
    Beyond the outposts, the system was a cloud of debris and
planets orbiting the Borg sun.  The first layer the Vigilante
scanned consisted mostly of refined metal and other materials
that did not occur naturally.
    The Vigilante took a close parking position next to one of
the outposts while they completed their initial scans of the
system.  It had been their experience with the first outpost that
the senors on these installations did not work well in close
proximity.
    All non-gaseous planets in the system were strip mined like
the planets the Vigilante has surveyed upon arrival in the
quadrant.  The mining of these planets, however, was not nearly
as efficient and they were also showing several thousand years
more weathering then the other planets.
    "Sir," Ensign O'Malley reported "I am reading one planet that
has not been mined."
    "Lets see it." the Captain said immediately diverting his
attention to the main screen.
    "The computer is extrapolating now." O'Malley said.  On the
screen, the picture of a dark gray-blue planet began to flicker
as the computer pieced a view of it together through the debris
of the system.
    For an M-class at the current magnification, the crew
expected to see the out line of land masses and weather patterns.
Instead, the planet appeared to be a single swirling mass of dark
gray clouds.  O'Malley adjusted the sensor frequencies filtering
the clouds, the computer extrapolated the new readings into a
fresh view of the planet.
    Instead of the naturally flowing forms of continental land
masses, the picture showed a grid work of construction.  There
were no shores or mountains, no sign of agriculture or unused
land, everything was covered.
    "My God." The Captain whispered "The whole planet is built
over."

-----------

    Lieutenant Utlin had sat with the drop teams in their meeting
room watching the Vigilante's progression through the Borg
system.  They had detected very limited travel activity within
the confines of the system.  It was hypothesized that the Borg
had over grown and abandoned their home planet for the network of
outposts.  There was, however, a very strong Borg link signal
coming from the over-grown planet.
    The progress was extremely slow.  The ship had to be guided
on a path so as not to disturb any of the debris.  If they bumped
anything or created a wake, it could give them away.
    Utlin and Whitecloud  wandered out of the meeting room and
into Cavern.  In the locker room, the A-Drop Teams were preparing
the mission armor.
    "Do you think the Captain will use any of us this time
around?" Lieutenant Utlin mused.
    "If he gets a chance I know he'll send some of us in."
Anndrea replied.
    "Don't you think we'll get close enough?"
    "We barely made it out of the Outpost" Whitecloud replied.
"The Borg know something is out here and they know how to detect
us.  All that's left is for them to know were to look."

    Everyone on the bridge held their breath as the Captain read
the initial reports on the system.  Now was the moment of
decision, he would either decide to head into the lions den right
away or they would sit and analyze the system for weeks as they
had done on there approach.  Nobody knew what the Captain would
do, but they were all getting tired of sitting around watching
the Borg fly back and fourth.  They had been tracking the Borg
flight patterns since leaving the Outpost it was time to do some
real exploring.
     Captain Anthony turned to Ensign O'Malley "Ensign, plot best
course and speed to the Borg planet so as to achieve zero wake in
the Borg debris field.  What is the estimated time to have that
ready?"
     Ensign O'Malley processed the course parameters then replied
"Computer estimates it will take thirty seven minutes to plot a
course with zero wake keeping impulse power over ten percent."
     "Very good." The Captain turned to Commander Tarva
"Commander , you have the bridge.  I'll be in the Command Room."
     "Yes, Sir." Tarva replied and watched the Captain stride
into the Command room.



     Upon arrival at the Borg system Lieutenant Utlin felt a
great pull to visit Lady Purlerna.  They were in now at the front
door of the creatures that had destroyed their world.  Lin'Hrlar
had brought them both here for a reason.  What was his plan?  Did
they have a mission here, or was their survival more basic?  Were
they meant to be the re-genesis of Lin'Hrlar's flock?  When these
thoughts cross his mind, Utlin couldn't resist the urge to visit
Purlerna.  Could he ever except the fate of excepting this female
as his Companion?
     The Lady sat in her outer chamber listening to some obscure
Federation music.  Utlin sat on a small bench across from young
lady.  She was a magnificent sight in her red and gold robes and
long flowing hair.  She had put on some weight and looked fit and
healthy.  She continued to scan what ever it was that held her
attention on the computer and fashionably ignored him for a few
minutes.
     Finally she pretend to finish or grow bored with what ever
she wasn't reading on the screen and turned to Utlin.  "I am
pleased you have come to visit, my Future Companion."  she said
softly.
     "We haven't had much of a chance to talk since my return."
Utlin said "I came to see how you have been."
     "I am quite well." Purlerna said "I am, however, becoming
quite bored with this cruise.  My attendants are very slow to
respond to my calls and always act as if they are doing me a
favor."  she sighed slightly resigned to her fate of having such
poor help.
     "What kind of instrumental are you listening to?" Utlin
asked trying to carry the conversation.
     "Something from a period call 'Terran Mid-eighteenth
Century' I've never heard of it before, but it is relaxing."
Purlerna stood and swirled her robes about as she turned toward
the replicator.  "Are you hungry? we can have something
delivered, at least the food service on the vessel is top notch.
     Utlin panicked, she had never been this nice to him before
and he started thinking about the 'future companion' comment she
had just made.  "No, I'm not hungry, thank you." he replied
quickly as he stood.  "I really must be going, I have duties
elsewhere."  He headed toward the door while she was still across
the room from him.
     Utlin  felt a surprisingly strong grip on his arm that spun
him away from the door.  It was Lady Purlerna, she must have run
across the room to catch him.  Her eyes were wide and very lucid.
For the first time in many weeks she looked like she had come out
of her fantasy world.  Her fear was very evident.  "We must leave
this place." she plead.
     "What?" Utlin wasn't sure if she knew what she was talking
about.
     "They know we're here." Purlerna said "They've been waiting
for us. Tell the Lords of this vessel, tell them we must leave
this place,...please" she started begging and dropped to her
knees, clutching Lieutenant Utlin around the legs.  "Please," she
sobbed, "we must leave here...we must."

----------------

     Not long after Lady Purlerna had to be sedated the Vigilante
started its slow trek into the Borg system.  The course the
computer mapped out would get them to the Borg 'Home World' in 5
days.
     The crew was more on edge now than when they had entered the
Borg outpost.  Nobody knew how the Borg would react to an alien
vessel entering their system.  Would they consider it irrelevant
as they seemed to consider everything else, or would it be enough
out the ordinary that it would warrant investigation.  Nobody
seemed to notice that the Vigilante traveled with its cloaking
activated, it was assumed by the speculators that the Borg could
defeat the cloak.  The only remaining question was just how long
would it take the Borg to come to investigate.
     Captain Anthony and Commander Tarva were not nearly as
skeptical as most of the crew.  There was yet to be any evidence
that the Borg sensors could defeat the cloaking.  They were
making preliminary plans for surveying and exploring the Borg
planet when someone signaled at the door to the Command Room then
entered..
     It was S'Erlet "Sir, I've been tracking the movement of Borg
vessels in the area."  He began.
     "What do you have?" the Captain said turning his computer
display aside.  He knew that S'Erlet would not disturb them if it
wasn't important.
     "Since we began the final approach to the Borg planet, there
has constantly been five Borg cubes within two hundred million
kilometers of our position."
     "What!" Captain Anthony was suddenly very interested. "Are
you saying that we are being shadowed by five Borg cubes."

     "Not exactly." S'Erlet replied "The Borg flight patterns
keep that many vessels with in the sphere I described."
     "What does that mean?" Commander Tarva asked.
     "I mean, Sir, that it appears that we are being shadowed but
not by the same vessels.  The five are constantly changing
depending on what looks like normal flight paths."
     "Could this be a coincidence?" The Captain sounded very
concerned.
     "If we were stationary, yes," S'Erlet said "but we are
moving, and still continue to be the center of a sphere of flight
paths."  S'Erlet then produced the results of his statistical
analysis of the Borg flight paths.
     The Captain studied the data for a few minutes then called a
meeting of the top command staff.  It was obvious that the Borg
knew they were there and were going to great lengths not to show
it.
     The options were limited, continue with the current flight
plan until the Borg made their move, or exit the system with all
possible haste.
     "If we must leave now, we are not coming back." The Captain
said.  He wasn't arguing a choice of action, just brainstorming
the consequences.  "Our job is not to fight our way to the Borg
home world, it is to gather intelligence.  We now know more about
the Borg then the Federation could have ever dreamed of before
commissioning the Vigilante."
     "But to get this close and not actually go the Borg home
planet would be tantamount to failure." Tarva interjected "What
if they continue to ignore us?  What if this adjustment of flight
paths is their way of studying an anomaly without taking ships
away from normal operations?"
     Commander Norton then spoke up.  He normally remained silent
at these meetings unless addressed.  When he spoke, they all
listened "While we sit here discussing the intentions of the
Borg, they are studying us, they are analyzing us, they are
_Learning_ from us."
     The Captain turned and looked at his First Officer for a
second then jumped to his feet.  He headed to the bridge at a
dead run.

     "Ensign," Captain Anthony said loudly "plot a course out of
the system, best speed."
     "And the wake, Sir?" Ensign O'Malley ventured.
     "Damn the wake, get us out of here." The Captain paused in
thought for a second "Plot the course to head directly away from
were the closest Borg ships are headed."  Captain Anthony then
ordered the ship to Red Alert.  "I doubt they're going to let us
go peacefully." he added under his breath.
     The ship was already at battle stations, but at red alert,
they strapped in to the rough duty seats and closed the
restraints.  The guards and other security personnel took their
weapons off safety and brought them to full charge.  People were
already in their places for "silent running" now they were
hanging on, waiting for the fight to begin.
     "Speculate,"  the Captain said to the bridge crew "have they
pierced the cloaking, and, or the hull.  Can they scan us without
our sensors picking it up?"
     "Sir," Commander Tarva spoke up "If they could fully scan
us, wouldn't they have boarded or confronted us......"
     "Captain" Ensign O'Malley said "new course plotted and laid
in, Sir."
     "Thank you, Ensign, engage, full impulse."
     The Vigilante immediately took a sharp ninety degree nose
dive.  Even with the inertial dampening fields, a maneuver that
sharp was still felt by the crew.  Anybody who was not strapped
into their seats found themselves scrambling for support.
     The Captain had a hard time holding back a smile for Ensign
O'Malley.  She had plotted the exact course he had asked for and
threw the ship into it just as he had ordered.  Many commanders
would at least be annoyed with that kind of behavior, but he had
given this Ensign a lecture about second guessing him in an
emergency.  She proved she had learned her lesson well, it also
showed great self confidence in not looking for approval of the
drastic maneuver.  The Captain, of course, knew he had cleared
the way for her by not asking to see the course before ordering
it.
     "If tomorrow comes," Captain Anthony thought "I have a lot
of notations to make in the personnel records."
     With the Vigilante's sudden change of course and velocity,
the Borg vessels immediately broke their flight paths and headed
toward the ship.
     The Vigilante dodged through the debris field of the Borg
system at full impulse.  The path was not the most direct to open
space but was calculated to put as much distance as possible
between the ship and the Borg.  The Vigilante was using the star
system as a buffer between them and the Borg craft.
     The Borg took up immediate pursuit.  Within two minutes,
they could detect eight Borg cubes heading toward the vicinity of
the Vigilante's exit from the system.
     "Sir" S'Erlet spoke up "I'm reading a low level resitron
pulse emanating from all Borg outposts.  The pulse is acting like
a motion detector, it is how the Borg can track up."
     Tarva turned her chair toward the young Vulcan.  "How does
it work?"
     "All outposts are sending the resitron signal to all other
outposts. If they have the system accurately charted, they will
be able to detect any new movement or object."
     S'Erlet's consoled beep and he looked at new readings.
"Sir," he said "new data indicates a sub-space force field
connecting the outposts in our vicinity."
     "What effect will it have on us?" Tarva asked.
     "Uncertain, I'm analyzing now."
     "No need," Commander Norton said "Minimally, a sub-space
force field of this type will rip away our deflector shields and
it may rupture the hull."

     The Captain began typing at his console. "Ensign O'Mallley,
I'm entering a new course."
     "Aye, plotting new course." The young woman responded as she
laid in the new orders. The bridge could see O'Malley tense up as
she translated the new heading. She couldn't help a quick
questioning glance over her shoulder at the Captain.
     "Engage."
     All expected the Vigilante to make another sharp turn, but
the change wasn't noticeable.
     "There are now twelve Borg vessel converging on our previous
exit point." Someone offered.
     The Captain brought a chart up on his screen and on one of
O'Malley's screens.  "Ensign, here is our way out of the system."
Captain Anthony said "This is going to take some precision flying
on your part, I hope your ready."
     "I hope so too, Sir." Ensign O'Malley returned with a forced
smile.
     An object soon appeared in the middle of the main view
screen.
     Commander Tarva leaned forward looking at the image on the
screen.  "It's one of the outposts?"
     "Correct," Captain Anthony said he then pointed to the
diagram on his monitor "here" he pointed to an outer section of
the super-structure.  "We can take the Vigilante through here and
avoid the force field."
     "Sir?" Tarva said quietly "Are you sure we can make it at
speed?"
     "We're going to have to, aren't we." The Captain returned in
the same hushed tone.
     "Reading activity at the outpost." Ensign O'Malley reported.
"There are Borg ships deploying from the station."
     "Steady as she goes." Captain Anthony said "Maintain course.
What's our ETA?"
     S'Erlet spoke up "Sir, our ETA to the outpost is three
minutes fifty seconds...mark."
     "Thank you." Anthony then turned back to O'Malley "At
precisely one minute, thirty seconds from structure begin evasive
maneuvers Diago-Alpha."
     "Diago-Alpha, aye Sir" O'Malley confirmed.
     Commander Tarva then turned to Commander Norton "Prepare
Counter Measures for release at initiation of maneuver."
     "Working on it." Norton replied as quickly entered orders
into his console.  "If the resitron tracking is as sensitive as I
think, I know just what we need."
     For the crew of the Vigilante time seemed to stand still.
All who didn't have duties to perform watched the image of the
Borg outpost rushing toward them.  Only the bridge crew knew of
the pending Diago-Alpha maneuvers.  To the rest it just seemed
they were rushing head first into the Lion's den.
     The ships deploying from the outpost formed a grid in front
of the structure and started heading toward them.  "Sir, S'Erlet
reported they are sweeping for us."
     "Thank you, Ensign." Captain Anthony replied then said
"Change evasive maneuvers to Diag-Beta, initiate on my mark."
     "Diag-Beta." O'Malley responded "Aye, Sir."

     On Captain Anthony's command the Vigilante started a series
of evasive maneuver's design.  First a series of low power photon
torpedoes were launched to detonate sequentially carrying the
signature of the Vigilante's momentum forward.  They also hoped
the explosions would overload the resitron receptors and help
blind the Borg for a few seconds as the Vigilante made its run
through the superstructure of the outpost.
     The Vigilante cut speed and made a series of sharp course
changes. The photon torpedoes continued to detonate along the
ship's former path.  The Vigilante dropped under the cubes and
was soon beyond the ships.  The Borg had immediately focused
their attention on the Vigilante's old path and the counter
measures.  The crew watched as their old flight path was filled
with energy charges and tractor beams from the Borg ships.
     "Nice job, Ensign." Anthony said "Now take us in."
     "Aye, Sir, starting final run now."  O'Malley replied.
     "Prepare to jump to warp as soon as we exit." Anthony told
the bridge.  "Evasive pattern Romeo-One."
     The Vigilante increased speed and headed toward the right
side of the structure.  The computer was given the task of
adjusting speed and direction based on the scans of other
outposts.  If this Outpost varied in design from the others, it
could be disaster for the Vigilante.  The ship weaved in, out and
around the surface structures of the station.  Every course
change and speed adjustment was predetermined from maps they made
of the  first Outpost and hopefully corrected on the fly from
incoming data.
     Approaching the final obstacle, the crew was ready to jump
to warp before being totally clear of the structure.  "Hold your
speed." the Captain said "If they can't see us on this side, we
don't want to give ourselves away by jumping too soon."
     It was a matter of seconds from clearing the last structure
to clearing the Station totally.  The few beats of time it took
to be free the station were an eternity.  The ship was barely
flexing when it flung them away from the Borg system at warp 9.
     "Any sign of pursuit?" Commander Tarva asked praying for a
negative reply.
     In response, the ship rocked hard to port and the lights
dimmed for an instant.
     "Continue evasive sequence."  Anthony said, then turned
toward Commander Norton "What's out there?"
     "We read two Borg cubes in the immediate area." Norton
replied, reading directly from reports on his screen.  "They are
holding warp nine and firing randomly in front of them."
     "Lets see them." Captain Anthony said turning toward the
main screen.
     "Stabilized rear view coming up now, Sir." Norton responded.
     The screen  showed two Borg ships that appeared to be
moving in a synchronized dance left and right, and up and down
across the screen.  The apparent movement was caused by the
Vigilante's evasive maneuvers.  Without computer stabilization,
the picture would have been a complete blur.
     "Why only two?" someone wondered aloud.

     A coded clearance appeared on Commander Tarva's screen from
the Captain. "Commander Norton have fire control target the
closest Cube.  Prepare delivery sequence Shelby-One."  She said
without turning her attention from the commands on her screen.
As second in command of the Vigilante Commander Tarva was given
many of the firing codes instead of the Captain.  It was an
attempt to decentralize command in case of capture.
     "Commander hold fire." the Captain said.  "Helm, increase
speed to warp nine point three."  Captain Anthony was hoping the
Vigilante could get away from the Borg without a fight.  He knew
they couldn't defeat the Borg and he wanted to avoid leaving the
system in a fire fight.
     Just as the Vigilante increased speed, Lieutenant S'Erlet
spoke up "Captain, no! They may be able ..."  The Vigilante shook
violently and lurched hard to port.
     As soon as the ship started to shake, Commander Tarva
started yelling, "Fire, Fire."
     The Vigilante released a stream of photon torpedoes directly
at the Borg ship behind them.  At the same time, they beamed
dozens of specially prepared torpedoes directly into the interior
of the ship.  The torpedoes fired at the cube had minimal effect
on the it, but served as a distraction.  The torpedoes were
beamed into strategic locations throughout the structure.
     The photon torpedoes exploded in a predefined pattern called
the Shelby Sequence.  Commander Shelby was one of he foremost
authorities on the Borg and had suggested that if their main
power conduits could be disrupted in exactly the right pattern,
it could create a feed-back resonance that would destroy the
ship.  The Borg immediately started experiencing trouble and
dropped out of warp.
     The Vigilante had trouble of its own and no one noticed when
one of their pursuers dropped light years behind them.  The star
ship had dropped its speed and spun wildly off course.
     "Maintain Warp." Captain Anthony yelled  "Continue evasive
maneuvers.  Engineering what's our status?"
     Tarva cross talked over the Captain, ordering the targeting
of the second cube.
     "We've sustained damage to warp nacelle One." came Commander
Dolittel's voice from engineering.
     "Unable to establish transporter lock on cube's interior."
Commander Norton reported, then added "Shields are at seventy
five percent.  Cloaking is operative."
     "Damage stableized." Dolittel echoed in the background.
     "Holding warp nine." helm reported over the commotion.
     "What the HELL happened!?" The Captain demanded.
     "Our increase in velocity registered on the Borg's motion
detectors and they were able to triangulate on us."  S'Erlet
reported speaking as quickly as he could.
     "Sir," Ensign O'Malley spoke up "I read ten Borg ships
headed in this direction at high warp, they will catch up with us
in five minutes."
     "Shiv."  Captain Anthony said loudly then started entering
new commands into his console.  "Helm, I'm entering a new
course."
     "Aye, Sir" came the simple reply.
     "Engage."
     The Vigilante immediately dropped out of warp and changed
its heading straight down.  For an instant, the ship continued on
its old course with saucer section pointing down.  The closer
cube was immediately light years beyond them with the other ships
also over shooting.
     The Vigilante used its acceleration advantage jumping
directly to warp 9.6.  This time they held a straight course
trying to put as much distance between themselves and the Borg as
possible.
     "Bridge," came Dolittel's voice from engineering.  "I don't
know if we can maintain this speed, the damaged nacelle might not
hold."
     "We won't have to for long."  The Captain replied "Prepare
for controlled worm hole.."  Before Anthony had finished
speaking, the Vigilante shudder and the lights flickered.
     "Sir we're losing speed." Ensign O'Malley reported.
     "Engineering," the Captain yelled at the intercom what's
going on down there?
     "We lost nacelle one,"  Dolittel reported  "nacelle two is
also off line."  Because of resonance and synchronization
problems, the warp nacelles could only be operated in matched
pairs.  "Recelebrating for two nacelle operation now."
     From the last maneuver, the Borg had become extremely strung
out and did not have a precise location of the Vigilante.  The
one ship in the area was able to zero in on the interference and
radiation being generated by the failing nacelle.  The ship
approached slowly, still unable to pin point the intruder.
     "All Stop." Captain Anthony commanded.
     "Initiate jamming." Tarva said as they watched the ship
approach.  The jamming devices were designed to blind the Borg
scanners and to mask the Borg link.
     The Vigilante drifted under the Borg ship as it passed
through the area.  The crew watched the Borg on the main view
screen in silence.  The ship passed beyond the Vigilante but was
still within jamming range when it turned back.
     Anthony signalled engineering. "Do we have full speed?"
     "We have full speed." came Dolittel's reply "But
acceleration will be effected slightly and we won't be able to
hold top speed indefinitely."
     "How about the controlled wormhole?" Tarva put in.
     "Aye, it is still operational." Dolittel returned.
     Approaching the Vigilante's position the Borg began an
intense off-frequency sensor sweep of the area.  The cube wasn't
heading directly toward the ship but would pass extremely close.
     "Prepare to jump to warp nine point six on my command."
Anthony told the crew.
     The Borg passed just beyond its closest point when the ship
came to a dead stop.  Sensors on the Vigilante told them the
whole area was under intense study from the Borg.
     The crew leaned forward watching the Borg closely.  Should
they wait and see if they passed on or jump now and hope to out
run them.
     "It can maintain nine point six just as well as we can."
Captain Anthony said to Commander Tarva when she looked at him
questioningly.  "Lets see if they pass on.  Helm be prepared for
warp if they get any closer."
     "Sir, I'm ready a power buildup in the closest face of the
Cube."  S'Erlet reported.
     "Get us out of here!" Anthony said.
     A tractor beam sprang from the Borg ship aimed directly at
the damaged nacelle.  The Vigilante jumped to warp nine point six
just in time to avoid the beam.  The Borg immediately took up
pursuit.
     "Prepare for  controlled worm hole." Anthony commanded.
"We've got to get out of here before they can triangulate in on
us again."
     The Vigilante rocked again as the Borg latched out with
their tractor beam.  The beam locked solidly on the deflector
shields around the disabled nacelle.
     "They've established a tractor Beam lock. We're dropping out
of warp."  Commander Norton reported.  "Targeting all weapons
now."
     "Fire at will."  Anthony said. "Get us out of here."
     For the first time ever the Vigilante's phasers fired in
anger.  The high powered phaser banks fired through a 'rippling'
effect in the cloaking and did heavy damage to the cube's
superstructure, but the tractor beam held tight.  At the same
time all of the Vigilante's torpedo delivery systems targeted the
cube.  The launched torpedoes were aimed at the source of the
tractor beam and at the sights that were taking damage from the
phasers.  The tractor beam area was heavily shielded and the
torpedoes did no significant damage.  Heavy damage continued to
be inflicted on the areas the phasers could reach, the beam held
tight.  Internally, torpedoes were beamed in but they couldn't
achieve the Shelby Sequence and were doing no noticeable damage.
     Another beam came from the Borg ship, this was the high
powered cutting beam.  It immediately struck the shields between
the top nacelles, next to the tractor beam.  The Vigilante
shuddered and lost power to many low priority systems as the
computer tried to maintain the shields.
     "Shields down to forty five percent."  Commander Norton
reported.
     "Disengage cloaking." Captain Anthony said "Save the energy,
they know we're here."
     "At current rate, shields will fail in five minutes."
Commander Norton said.
     "Sir," it was S'Erlet.
     "Yes" The Captain said quickly glance toward the young
Vulcan.
     "We may be able to escape when the shields fail."
     "Explain."
     "The Borg still haven't dealt with the Vigilante's hull
material.  Because of its energy absorbing nature the tractor
beam may not be as effective against the bare hull."
     The Captain looked at his security chief "What do you
think?"
     "Its a solid hypothesis based on current data." Norton said
"But the data is not conclusive."
     "What about the cutting beam?" Commander Tarva asked.
     "Oh," S'Erlet said almost nonchalantly "We'll take a direct
hit over Engine Room One."
     Tarva immediately signaled evacuation of Engine Room One and
emergency lock down of Engine Room Two.  All personnel were
evacuated from Engine Room One and all non essential personnel
from Engine Room Two.  The remaining personnel stayed in their
rough duty chairs which would automatically drop to safety in an
emergency.  They all knew this wouldn't happen, since if E.R. Two
failed, there would be no safety.
     "Prepare to drop shields." Anthony commanded.  "Helm and
Engineering be ready for warp as soon as we cut the rear
shields."
     Captain Anthony sat back and braced himself.  He could sense
the rest of the Bridge crew and the ship tense up as the lights
dimmed again from the power strain of the two beams.
     Phaser and torpedo fire continued to pour from the Vigilante
but was having considerably less of an effect.  When the
Vigilante dropped it's rear shields its lights seemed to brighten
for an instant.  Immediately, however, the cutting beam hit the
craft amid ships near the saucer section.  Much of the energy was
dissipated by the hull, but Engine Room One was  still engulfed
in fire and explosions.
     The Borg tractor beam was much less focused and needed more
time to adjust to the new target.  This was all the Vigilante
needed and it was instantly out of sight.  Borg being as single
minded as they are immediately took off after the strange little
ship.
     Commander Dolittel and several technicians worked feverishly
in the engine room control center that over looked both areas.
The evacuated Engine Room One was engulfed in flame and high
power electrical discharges the instant the Borg struck the ship.
Most functions had already been diverted to Engine Room Two, but
the Vigilante still felt a massive power loss from the damage.
     Seconds before the strike, Commander Dolittel had closed the
blast shields between the control room and Engine Room One.
Through failing monitors, he watched one of the two most advanced
engine rooms in Star Fleet burn.
     Now they had another problem, they had started shutting down
the ALPHA warp core as soon as the evacuation was ordered, but
there hadn't been nearly enough time.  The team was doing all
they could to release the energy building up in the damaged
coils, but they knew it was only a matter of minutes before a
total breach.
     Sirens howled around him as Commander Dolittel signaled the
bridge.  "We have less then two minutes before warp core breach."
he reported.  "Prepare for ejection of ALPHA warp core and anti-
matter pods."
     Dolittel then glanced at the stats for BETA core, it was
pushing 98% capacity.  Continuing work on the ejection he
signaled the bridge with the stats for the BETA core and the
count down for the ejection of ALPHA core.

     10...9...
     The Vigilante held warp eight and the bridge crew watched
the countdown for the ejection of ALPHA core.
     .8...7...
     They watched the Borg gaining on them and knew they had only
one card left to play.
     .6...5...
     "Prepare for controlled worm hole." Anthony yelled.
     .4...3...
     Explosive charges released the ALPHA Core exterior hull
plates from the Vigilante.
     .2...1...
     The plates didn't have time to separate from the ship when
they were blown away from the much larger explosions expelling
ALPHA core and its anti-matter pods.
     The ship rocked from the radical maneuver but the maintained
power thanks to the BETA core.  The picture of the approaching
Borg ship was soon obliterated by the exploding warp core.  All
silently hoped the cube would be destroyed or disabled by the
explosion, but it quickly emerged from the cloud unscathed.
     "Bridge, Dolittel here." came a voice over the intercom.
     "Commander," Anthony called back "do we have the controlled
wormhole?"
     "Sir, it's a mess down here." Dolittel returned.  "There's
no way we can implement a worm hole and have any control over
it."
     "I read five more Borg ship closing fast." S'Erlet reported
in the background.
     "I don't care about control!" Anthony yelled at the bearded
face on his monitor.  "Get us out of here, now."
     The nearest Borg ship was close enough to fire on the
Vigilante but had sustained sufficient damage to effect its
targeting systems.  The first bursts of energy missed the
Vigilante, but they would use the misses to adjust their
sighting.
     Ensign O'Malley had been trying to run setup routines on the
Worm Hole console next to her but was getting no response.
Suddenly the ship was filled with a loud siren that none
recognized at first.  It was the ten second warning for the
wormhole.
     Dolittel had to over ride every safety precaution built into
the controlled wormhole, but that was easy working at the
engineering main console.  The Captain didn't seem to care were
they went, as long as it was away from here, and Dolittel quite
agreed.  Strapping himself into his rough duty seat, he looked
out into the engine room and watched his crew scramble for their
own chairs.
     "God, I hope they make it." he thought to himself, then
frowned.  "God I hope WE make it."

     They hit a brick wall, or at least if felt like it.  Captain
Anthony wasn't sure what happened.  Everything flew at him and he
felt himself crush into his chair.  The bridge wrapped around him
then began to spiral in front of him.  It looked like a long
tunnel with the view screen and stars at the far end.  The
tunneling felt like it was drilling into his hole body.  Then it
was through him and he felt like he would be blown apart.

     When the Vigilante purposely breached the alignments of its
warp coils, the pursuing Borg ship was extremely close.  The
artificial wormhole created by the breach sucked the large Borg
ship into its starship sized corridor.  The Cube collapsed like
water flowing through a funnel.

----------

     Pain surged through everybody on the Vigilante.  They felt
like every blood vessel their bodies had exploded. Captain
Anthony gasped for breath and fumbled to release himself from his
restraints.  The Bridge was almost black except for faint red
emergency lighting.  The Wormhole control systems had emergency
power cut offs in case accidents, but they too may have been
disabled to implement maneuver.
     Captain Anthony felt extremely light headed, but didn't know
if it was from injuries or from loss of gravity.  When he got the
restraints removed and tried to stand, it felt like the seat just
dropped away from him.  He wasn't in free fall, but gravity was
minimal.
     "Bridge to engineering." The Captain said looking around the
bridge.  "What's our status?"  The bridge crew was slowly gaining
consciousness.  Debris hung from the ceiling and littered the
deck.
     "Bridge to Engineering, report."  Anthony tried again.
     There was still no response.  Captain Anthony made it one of
the Bridge engineering stations and tried to run some
diagnostics.
     "Bridge to any station, report." came Commander Tarva's
voice from behind Anthony.
     The Captain looked back at his First Officer, he had
neglected his bridge crew knowing the status of the ship was more
important then any one of them.  The short Kalonian was working
herself free of the restraints and trying to raise the rest of
the ship at the same time.
     The diagnostics didn't look good, they had minimal power,
and it looked the safety over rides on the worm hole had totally
shut down the BETA warp core.
     "This isn't good." Captain Anthony said softly.
     Other Bridge crew were slowly gaining consciousness.
Commander Tarva was able to raise several sections of the
Vigilante, but not Engineering.
     "Were are we?" Anthony said, "Did we get away from the
Borg?"
     As if in answer to his question, the Vigilante rocked with a
great THUD.  The whole crew scrambled for the support and looked
at each other trying not show the fear they we feeling.  The ship
rocked again.
     "What is it?" Antony demand "Are we under attack?"
     The crew tried every station for answers but none responded.
The power loss was total for external sensors.  When the ship
rocked a third time, Captain Anthony and Commander Tarva both
scrambled for the command room.  After prying the door open, they
had to contend with the blast shields.  There were manual
controls, but they were not designed for emergencies, only
maintenance.
     After getting one shield half open they had a small area
looking across the rear of the ship.  The Vigilante floated in
blackness.  The few pin points of light from distant stars
weren't enough to tell them what was out there.
     "We have contact with the drop bays." Anthony said.
     "Yes, Sir." Tarva replied.
     "Tell them to turn on the emergency landing beacons, that
might give us enough light to see what out there." Another
thudding sound echoed through the ship.
     "Commander Kartang reports they have about a minutes worth
of battery power for you." Tarva report from here large
communicator.
     "That should be plenty."  Anthony said.
     Tarva put the communicator away bring out a tri-corder and
leaned down to look out the window with the Captain.  In such an
absence of light even the smallest amount can seem like a sun
rise.  Straight back, light suddenly came up from where the hull
dropped off to the shuttle bays.
     Captain Anthony and Commander Tarva grimaced at what they
saw first. To their right, the hull was scorched black and cracks
radiated from the center of the strike.  The upper port nacelle
had a large hole blown in the front and was shattered down the
side.  Wires and debris dangled from it.
     At first they saw no sign of what was hitting the Vigilante,
finally they saw a large chunk of debris slowly float out of the
darkness and glance of the side of the ship.  With the hit, a
dull THUD echoed through the starship.  Soon after they were hit,
the lights from the shuttle bay faded and went out.
     "Did you get it?" Anthony asked.
     "Yes, Sir." Tarva replied holding up the tri-corder show a
clear picture of the object that had just struck the ship.
     The two headed for the Bridge and heard the computers begin
to come back on line.  Tarva went straight to S'Erlet to help
with identifying the debris and Captain Anthony tried signalling
engineering again.
     The intercom was filled with static, a step forward, then a
voice broke though. ".ridge, this is Comm....Dolit...damage from
worm........casualties.  Will have some..ower on line
in....minutes."  Dolittel was speaking quickly to get the message
through before communication was lost again.
     Captain Anthony turned to one of the technicians nearby get
down there and find out what exactly is our status."  He then
turned to someone else, "Try to set up a computer link with
engineering, maybe we can get some information that way."
     "Can anybody tell me where we are yet?" Anthony said looking
around at the whole bridge.
     Ensign O'Malley spoke up. "Sir, I have established a link
with Stellar Cartography we are working on our location now.
With the main computers still down, it may take awhile."
     "OK, Ensign, keep working on it."
     "Sir." It was Commander Tarva.
     "Yes, Commander.
     "We've tentatively identified the debris we saw." Tarva
reported.
     "What is it?" the Captain asked he figured it was from some
part of the Vigilante he couldn't see.
     "The piece I recorded is a fragment of a Borg ship." Tarva
reported.  "We've also enhanced the pictures to show more of the
space around us."
     Tarva then showed Captain Anthony the tri-corder's screen.
It showed that the Vigilante was floating in a cloud of debris.
     "Apparently," S'Erlet offered "The cube followed us through
the worm hole and was torn apart in the process."
     The Captain looked at the picture and smiled "I guess it
didn't fit."
     The ship rocked again from another strike.
     "If we don't get the shields back up soon, that damned Borg
ship may still be the end of us."  Anthony said in frustration.
     At that, the main lights came up and everyone suddenly felt
much less light headed.
     "Bridge, this is Engineering." came Commander Dolittel's
voice over the intercom.
     "Go ahead, Commander." Tarva replied.
     "We have main power back on line and shields at eight
percent.  We've sustained major damage to all drive systems but
should be able to repair most of it." Dolittel reported.  "We are
currently working on getting the impulse drives back on line so
we get some maneuverability back."
     "What about the warp drives."  Tarva asked.
     "It's hard to say, Commander.  We should be able to get
nacelles three and four on line, but not at full capacity.  Top
speed will probably be around warp seven and top sustainable
speed around warp five."
     "How about the controlled worm hole" the Captain asked
dryly.
     "Sir," Commander Dolittel returned.  "that last jump  is
about as controlled as it gets."
     "No control on the worm hole and no high warp capability."
Captain Anthony summarized.  "I hope we landed somewhere near the
Federation, or else it could be a very long ride home."
     Ensign O'Malley looked up from her console with a glazed
look in her eyes.  "Sir we have determined our present location.
We are on the far side of the Gamma quadrant."
     "The Gamma Quadrant?" Tarva asked in disbelief.
     "We would have had to go right through the Alpha quadrant to
get here."  someone said.
     "Sir," S'Erlet offered. "At high warp, the Gamma quadrant is
eighty years from Federation space."
     "Thank you Lieutenant, I know." Captain Anthony said as he
dropped heavily into his chair,  "I know."




                You who find us in this place,
                Have you pity in your breast
                Let us in our last embrace,
                Under earth sun-hallowed rest.
                Night's a claw upon my brain:
                Oh, to see the Sun again.
                       "Sunshine"
                         Robert W. Service

 LIBRARY OF THE FUTURE (R) First Edition Ver. 4.02 
 Gulliver's Travels                                               Swift Jonathan        

                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                      1726                                  
                                                                            
                                                                            
                               GULLIVER'S TRAVELS                           
                                                                            
                               by Jonathan Swift                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
 Electronically Enhanced Text (c) Copyright 1991, World Library, Inc.       
                                                                            
LETTER_TO_SYMPSON                                                           
  A LETTER FROM CAPTAIN GULLIVER TO HIS COUSIN SYMPSON                      
-                                                                           
  I hope you will be ready to own publicly, whenever you shall be           
called to it, that by your great and frequent urgency you prevailed on      
me to publish a very loose and uncorrect account of my travels; with        
direction to hire some young gentlemen of either university to put          
them in order, and correct the style, as my cousin Dampier did by my        
advice, in his book called A Voyage round the World. But I do not           
remember I gave you power to consent that any thing should be omitted,      
and much less that any thing should be inserted: therefore, as to           
the latter, I do here renounce every thing of that kind;                    
particularly a paragraph about her Majesty the late Queen Anne, of          
most pious and glorious memory; although I did reverence and esteem         
her more than any of human species. But you, or your interpolator,          
ought to have considered, that as it was not my inclination, so was it      
not decent to praise any animal of our composition before my master         
Houyhnhnm: and besides the fact was altogether false; for to my             
knowledge, being in England during some part of her Majesty's reign,        
she did govern by a chief minister; nay, even by two successively; the      
first whereof was the Lord of Godolphin, and the second the Lord of         
Oxford; so that you have made me say the thing that was not. Likewise,      
in the account of the Academy of Projectors, and several passages of        
my discourse to my master Houyhnhnm, you have either omitted some           
material circumstances, or minced or changed them in such a manner,         
that I do hardly know my own work. When I formerly hinted to you            
something of this in a letter, you were pleased to answer that you          
were afraid of giving offense; that people in power were very watchful      
over the press, and apt not only to interpret, but to punish every          
thing which looked like an innuendo (as I think you called it). But         
pray, how could that which I spoke so many years ago, and at about          
five thousand leagues distance, in another reign, be applied to any of      
the Yahoos who now are said to govern the herd; especially at a time        
when I little thought on or feared the unhappiness of living under          
them? Have not I the most reason to complain, when I see these very         
Yahoos carried by Houyhnhnms in a vehicle, as if these were brutes,         
and those the rational creatures? And indeed, to avoid so monstrous         
and detestable a sight was one principal motive of my retirement            
hither.                                                                     
  Thus much I thought proper to tell you in relation to yourself,           
and to the trust I reposed in you.                                          
  I do in the next place complain of my own great want of judgement,        
in being prevailed upon by the entreaties and false reasonings of           
you and some others, very much against my own opinion, to suffer my         
travels to be published. Pray bring to your mind how often I desired        
you to consider, when you insisted on the motive of public good;            
that the Yahoos were a species of animals utterly incapable of              
amendment by precepts or examples: and so it hath proved; for               
instead of seeing a full stop put to all abuses and corruptions, at         
least in this little island, as I had reason to expect: behold,             
after above six months warning, I cannot learn that my book hath            
produced one single effect according to my intentions: I desired you        
would let me know by a letter, when party and faction were                  
extinguished; judges learned and upright; pleaders honest and               
modest, with some tincture of common sense; and Smithfield blazing          
with pyramids of lawbooks; the young nobility's education entirely          
changed; the physicians banished; the female Yahoos abounding in            
virtue, honour, truth and good sense; courts and levees of great            
ministers thoroughly weeded and swept; wit, merit and learning              
rewarded; all disgracers of the press in prose and verse condemned          
to eat nothing but their own cotton, and quench their thirst with           
their own ink. These and a thousand other reformations, I firmly            
counted upon by your encouragement; as indeed they were plainly             
deducible from the precepts delivered in my book. And it must be owned      
that seven months were a sufficient time to correct every vice and          
folly to which Yahoos are subject, if their natures had been capable        
of the least disposition to virtue or wisdom: yet so far have you been      
from answering my expectation in any of your letters, that on the           
contrary you are loading our carrier every week with libels, and keys,      
and reflections, and memoirs, and second parts; wherein I see myself        
accused of reflecting upon great states-folk, of degrading human            
nature (for so they have still the confidence to style it), and of          
abusing the female sex. I find likewise that the writers of those           
bundles are not agreed among themselves; for some of them will not          
allow me to be author of my own travels; and others make me author          
of books to which I am wholly a stranger.                                   
  I find likewise that your printer hath been so careless as to             
confound the times, and mistake the dates of my several voyages and         
returns; neither assigning the true year, or the true month, or day of      
the month: and I hear the original manuscript is all destroyed since        
the publication of my book. Neither have I any copy left: however I         
have sent you some corrections, which you may insert, if ever there         
should be a second edition: and yet I cannot stand to them, but             
shall leave that matter to my judicious and candid readers, to              
adjust it as they please.                                                   
  I hear some of our sea-Yahoos find fault with my sea-language, as         
not proper in many parts, nor now in use. I cannot help it. In my           
first voyages, while I was young, I was instructed by the oldest            
mariners, and learned to speak as they did. But I have since found          
that the sea-Yahoos are apt, like the land ones, to become new-fangled      
in their words, which the latter change every year, insomuch as I           
remember upon each return to my own country their old dialect was so        
altered that I could hardly understand the new. And I observe, when         
any Yahoo comes from London out of curiosity visit me at my own house,      
we neither of us are able to deliver our conceptions in a manner            
intelligible to the other.                                                  
                                            {LETTER_TO_SYMPSON ^paragraph 5}
  If the censure of Yahoos could any way affect me, I should have           
great reason to complain that some of them are so bold as to think          
my book of travels a mere fiction out of my own brain, and have gone        
so far as to drop hints that the Houyhnhnms and Yahoos have no more         
existence than the inhabitants of Utopia.                                   
  Indeed I must confess, that as to the people of Lilliput,                 
Brobdingrag (for so the word should have been spelt, and not                
erroneously Brobdingnag), and Laputa, I have never yet heard of any         
Yahoo so presumptuous as to dispute their being, or the facts I have        
related concerning them; because the truth immediately strikes every        
reader with conviction. And is there less probability in my account of      
the Houyhnhnms or Yahoos, when it is manifest as to the latter,             
there are so many thousands even in this city, who only differ from         
their brother brutes in Houyhnhnm-land, because they use a sort of a        
jabber, and do not go naked? I wrote for their amendment, and not           
their approbation. The united praise of the whole race would be of          
less consequence to me than the neighing of those two degenerate            
Houyhnhnms I keep in my stable; because from these, degenerate as they      
are, I still improve in some virtues, without any mixture of vice.          
  Do these miserable animals presume to think that I am so far              
degenerated as to defend my veracity? Yahoo as I am, it is well             
known through all Houyhnhnm-land, that by the instructions and example      
of my illustrious master I was able in the compass of two years             
(although I confess with the utmost difficulty) to remove that              
infernal habit of lying, shuffling, deceiving, and equivocating, so         
deeply rooted in the very souls of all my species, especially the           
Europeans.                                                                  
  I have other complaints to make upon this vexatious occasion; but         
I forbear troubling myself or you any further. I must freely                
confess, that since my last return some corruptions of my Yahoo nature      
have revived in me by conversing with a few of your species, and            
particularly those of my own family, by an unavoidable necessity; else      
I should never have attempted so absurd a project as that of reforming      
the Yahoo race in this kingdom; but I have now done with all visionary      
schemes for ever.                                                           
-                                                                           
-                                                                           
April 2, 1727.                                                              
                                                                            
PUBLISHERS_LETTER                                                           
  THE PUBLISHER TO THE READER                                               
-                                                                           
  The author of these Travels, Mr. Lemuel Gulliver, is my ancient           
and intimate friend; there is likewise some relation between us by the      
mother's side. About three years ago Mr. Gulliver, growing weary of         
the concourse of curious people coming to him at his house in Redriff,      
made a small purchase of land, with a convenient house, near Newark in      
Nottinghamshire, his native country; where he now lives retired, yet        
in good esteem among his neighbors.                                         
  Although Mr. Gulliver was born in Nottinghamshire, where his              
father dwelt, yet I have heard him say his family came from                 
Oxfordshire; to confirm which, I have observed in the churchyard at         
Banbury, in that county, several tombs and monuments of the Gullivers.      
  Before he quitted Redriff, he left the custody of the following           
papers in my hands, with the liberty to dispose of them as I should         
think fit. I have carefully perused them three times: the style is          
very plain and simple; and the only fault I find is, that the               
author, after the manner of travelers, is a little too circumstantial.      
There is an air of truth apparent through the whole; and indeed the         
author was so distinguished for his veracity, that it became a sort of      
proverb among his neighbors at Redriff, when any one affirmed a thing,      
to say it was as true as if Mr. Gulliver had spoke it.                      
  By the advice of several worthy persons, to whom, with the                
author's permission, I communicated these papers, I now venture to          
send them into the world, hoping they may be at least, for some             
time, a better entertainment to our young noblemen than the common          
scribbles of politics and party.                                            
  This volume would have been at least twice as large, if I had not         
made bold to strike out innumerable passages relating to the winds and      
tides, as well as to the variations and bearings in the several             
voyages; together with the minute descriptions of the management of         
the ship in storms, in the style of sailors: likewise the account of        
the longitudes and latitudes; wherein I have reason to apprehend            
that Mr. Gulliver may be a little dissatisfied: but I was resolved          
to fit the work as much as possible to the general capacity of              
readers. However, if my own ignorance in sea-affairs shall have led me      
to commit some mistakes, I alone am answerable for them: and if any         
traveler hath a curiosity to see the whole work at large, as it came        
from the hand of the author, I shall be ready to gratify him.               
                                            {PUBLISHERS_LETTER ^paragraph 5}
  As for any further particulars relating to the author, the reader         
will receive satisfaction from the first pages of the book.                 
-                                                                           
                                          Richard Sympson.                  
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                     PART I                                 
                                                                            
                              A VOYAGE TO LILLIPUT                          
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                  (SEE PLATE 1)                             
                                                                            
P_1|CH_1                                                                    
  CHAPTER I                                                                 
-                                                                           
  My father had a small estate in Nottinghamshire; I was the third          
of five sons. He sent me to Emanuel College in Cambridge at fourteen        
years old, where I resided three years, and applied myself close to my      
studies: but the charge of maintaining me (although I had a very            
scanty allowance) being too great for a narrow fortune, I was bound         
apprentice to Mr. James Bates, an eminent surgeon in London, with whom      
I continued four years; and my father now and then sending me small         
sums of money, I laid them out in learning navigation, and other parts      
of the mathematics, useful to those who intend to travel, as I              
always believed it would be some time or other my fortune to do.            
When I left Mr. Bates, I went down to my father; where, by the              
assistance of him and my uncle John, and some other relations, I got        
forty pounds, and a promise of thirty pounds a year to maintain me          
at Leyden: there I studied physic two years and seven months,               
knowing it would be useful in long voyages.                                 
  Soon after my return from Leyden, I was recommended, by my good           
master Mr. Bates, to be surgeon to the Swallow, Captain Abraham             
Pannell commander; with whom I continued three years and a half,            
making a voyage or two into the Levant, and some other parts. When I        
came back, I resolved to settle in London, to which Mr. Bates, my           
master, encouraged me, and by him I was recommended to several              
patients. I took part of a small house in the Old Jury; and being           
advised to alter my condition, I married Mrs. Mary Burton, second           
daughter to Mr. Edmund Burton, hosier, in Newgate-street, with whom         
I received four hundred pounds for a portion.                               
  But, my good master Bates dying in two years after, and I having few      
friends, my business began to fail; for my conscience would not suffer      
me to imitate the bad practice of too many among my brethren. Having        
therefore consulted with my wife, and some of my acquaintance, I            
determined to go again to sea. I was surgeon successively in two            
ships, and made several voyages, for six years, to the East and West        
Indies, by which I got some addition to my fortune. My hours of             
leisure I spent in reading the best authors, ancient and modern, being      
always provided with a good number of books; and when I was ashore, in      
observing the manners and dispositions of the people, well as learning      
their language, wherein I had a great facility by the strength of my        
memory.                                                                     
  The last of these voyages not proving very fortunate, I grew weary        
of the sea, and intended to stay at home with my wife and family. I         
removed from the Old jury to Fetter-Lane, and from thence to Wapping        
hoping to get business among the sailors; but it would not turn to          
account. After three years expectation that things would mend, I            
accepted an advantageous offer from Captain William Prichard, master        
of the Antelope, who was making a voyage to the South-Sea. We set sail      
from Bristol May 4, 1699, and our voyage at first was very prosperous.      
  It would not be proper, for some reasons, to trouble the reader with      
the particulars of our adventures in those seas: let it suffice to          
inform him, that in our passage from thence to the East Indies, we          
were driven by a violent storm to the northwest of Van Diemen's             
Land. By an observation, we found ourselves in the latitude of 30           
degrees 2 minutes south. Twelve of our crew were dead by immoderate         
labor and ill food, the rest were in a very weak condition. On the          
fifth of November, which was the beginning of summer in those parts,        
the weather being very hazy, the seamen spied a rock, within half a         
cable's length of the ship; but the wind was so strong, that we were        
driven directly upon it, and immediately split. Six of the crew, of         
whom I was one, having let down the boat into the sea, made a shift to      
get clear of the ship, and the rock. We rowed by my computation             
about three leagues, till we were able to work no longer, being             
already spent with labor while we were in the ship. We therefore            
trusted ourselves to the mercy of the waves, and in about half an hour      
the boat was overset by a sudden flurry from the north. What became of      
my companions in the boat, as well as of those who escaped on the           
rock, or were left in the vessel, I cannot tell; but conclude they          
were all lost. For my own part, I swam as fortune directed me, and was      
pushed forward by wind and tide. I often let my legs drop, and could        
feel no bottom: but when I was almost gone, and able to struggle no         
longer, I found myself within my depth; and by this time the storm was      
much abated. The declivity was so small, that I walked near a mile          
before I got to the shore, which I conjectured was about eight o'clock      
in the evening. I then advanced forward near half a mile, but could         
not discover any sign of houses or inhabitants; at least I was in so        
weak a condition, that I did not observe them. I was extremely              
tired, and with that, and the heat of the weather, and about half a         
pint of brandy that I drank as I left the ship, I found myself much         
inclined to sleep. I lay down on the grass, which was very short and        
soft, where I slept sounder than ever I remember to have done in my         
life, and, as I reckoned, above nine hours; for when I awakened, it         
was just daylight. I attempted to rise, but was not able to stir            
for, as I happened to he on my back, I found my arms and legs were          
strongly fastened on each side to the ground; and my hair, which was        
long and thick, tied down in the same manner. I likewise felt               
several slender ligatures across my body, from my armpits to my             
thighs. I could only look upwards; the sun began to grow hot, and           
the light offended my eyes. I heard a confused noise about me, but          
in the posture I lay, could see nothing except the sky. In a little         
time I felt something alive moving on my left leg, which advancing          
gently forward over my breast, came almost up to my chin; when bending      
my eyes downwards as much as I could, I perceived it to be a human          
creature not six inches high, with a bow and arrow in his hands, and a      
quiver at his back. In the meantime, I felt at least forty more of the      
same kind (as I conjectured) following the first. I was in the              
utmost astonishment, and roared so loud, that they all ran back in a        
fright; and some of them, as I was afterwards told, were hurt with the      
falls they got by leaping from my sides upon the ground. However, they      
soon returned, and one of them, who ventured so far as to get a full        
sight of my face, lifting up his hands and eyes by way of                   
admiration, cried out in a shrill but distinct voice, Hekinah degul:        
the others repeated the same words several times, but I then knew           
not what they meant. I lay all this while, as the reader may                
believe, in great uneasiness: at length, struggling to get loose, I         
had the fortune to break the strings, and wrench out the pegs that          
fastened my left arm to the ground; for, by lifting it up to my             
face, I discovered the methods they had taken to bind me, and at the        
same time, with a violent pull, which gave me excessive pain, I a           
little loosened the strings that tied down my hair on the left side,        
so that I was just able to turn my head about two inches. But the           
creatures ran off a second time, before I could seize them;                 
whereupon there was a great shout in a very shrill accent, and after        
it ceased, I heard one of them cry aloud, Tolgo phonac; when in an          
instant I felt above a hundred arrows discharged on my left hand,           
which pricked me like so many needles; and besides they shot another        
flight into the air, as we do bombs in Europe, whereof many, I              
suppose, fell on my body (though I felt them not) and some on my face,      
which I immediately covered with my left hand. When this shower of          
arrows was over, I fell a groaning with grief and pain, and then            
striving again to get loose, they discharged another volley larger          
than the first, and some of them attempted with spears to stick me          
in the sides; but, by good luck, I had on me a buff jerkin, which they      
could not pierce. I thought it the most prudent method to lie still,        
and my design was to continue so till night, when, my left hand             
being already loose, I could easily free myself: and as for the             
inhabitants, I had reason to believe I might be a match for the             
greatest armies they could bring against me, if they were all of the        
same size with him that I saw. But fortune disposed otherwise of me.        
When the people observed I was quiet, they discharged no more               
arrows; but, by the noise I heard, I knew their numbers increased; and      
about four yards from me, over against my right ear, I heard a              
knocking for above an hour, like that of people at work; when               
turning my head that way, as well as the pegs and strings would permit      
me, I saw a stage erected, about a foot and a half from the ground,         
capable of holding four of the inhabitants, with two or three               
ladders to mount it: from whence one of them, who seemed to be a            
person of quality, made me a long speech, whereof I understood not one      
syllable. But I should have mentioned, that before the principal            
person began his oration, he cried out three times, Langro dehul san        
(these words and the former were afterwards repeated and explained          
to me). Whereupon immediately about fifty of the inhabitants came, and      
cut the strings that fastened the left side of my head, which gave          
me the liberty of turning it to the right, and of observing the person      
and gesture of him that was to speak. He appeared to be of a middle         
age, and taller than any of the other three who attended him,               
whereof one was a page that held up his train, and seemed to be             
somewhat longer than my middle finger; the other two stood one on each      
side to support him. He acted every part of an orator, and I could          
observe many periods of threatenings, and others of promises, pity,         
and kindness. I answered in a few words, but in the most submissive         
manner, lifting up my left hand and both my eyes to the sun, as             
calling him for a witness; and being almost famished with hunger,           
having not eaten a morsel for some hours before I left the ship, I          
found the demands of nature so strong upon me, that I could not             
forbear showing my impatience (perhaps against the strict rules of          
decency) by putting my finger frequently on my mouth, to signify            
that I wanted food. The Hurgo (for so they call a great lord, as I          
afterwards learned) understood me very well. He descended from the          
stage, and commanded that several ladders should be applied to my           
sides, on which above a hundred of the inhabitants mounted, and walked      
towards my mouth, laden with baskets full of meat, which had been           
provided, and sent thither by the King's orders, upon the first             
intelligence he received of me. I observed there was the flesh of           
several animals, but could not distinguish them by the taste. There         
were shoulders, legs, and loins, shaped like those of mutton, and very      
well dressed, but smaller than the wings of a lark. I ate them by           
two or three at a mouthful, and took three loaves at a time, about the      
bigness of musket bullets. They supplied me as they could, showing a        
thousand marks of wonder and astonishment at my bulk and appetite. I        
then made another sign that I wanted drink. They found by my eating         
that a small quantity would not suffice me, and being a most ingenious      
people, they slung up with great dexterity one of their largest             
hogsheads, then rolled it toward my hand, and beat out the top; I           
drank it off at a draught, which I might well do, for it did not            
hold half a pint, and tasted like a small wine of Burgundy, but much        
more delicious. They brought me a second hogshead, which I drank in         
the same manner, and made signs for more, but they had none to give         
me. When I had performed these wonders, they shouted for joy, and           
danced upon my breast, repeating several times as they did at first,        
Hekinah degul. They made me a sign that I should throw down the two         
hogsheads, but first warning the people below to stand out of the way,      
crying aloud, Borach mivola, and when they saw the vessels in the air,      
there was a universal shout of Hekinah degul. I confess I was often         
tempted, while they were passing backwards and forwards on my body, to      
seize forty or fifty of the first that came in my reach, and dash them      
against the ground. But the remembrance of what I had felt, which           
probably might not be the worst they could do, and the promise of           
honor I made them, for so I interpreted my submissive behavior, soon        
drove out these imaginations. Besides, I now considered myself as           
bound by the laws of hospitality to a people who had treated me with        
so much expense and magnificence. However, in my thoughts I could           
not sufficiently wonder at the intrepidity of these diminutive              
mortals, who dare venture to mount and walk upon my body, while one of      
my hands was at liberty, without trembling at the very sight of so          
prodigious a creature as I must appear to them. After some time,            
when they observed that I made no more demands for meat, there              
appeared before me a person of high rank from his Imperial Majesty.         
His Excellency, having mounted on the small of my right leg,                
advanced forwards up to my face, with about a dozen of his retinue.         
And producing his credentials under the Signet Royal, which he applied      
close to my eyes, spoke about ten minutes, without any signs of anger,      
but with a kind of determinate resolution; often pointing forwards,         
which, as I afterwards found, was towards the capital city, about half      
a mile distant, whither it was agreed by his Majesty in council that I      
must be conveyed. I answered in few words, but to no purpose, and made      
a sign with my hand that was loose, putting it to the other (but            
over his Excellency's head, for fear of hurting him or his train)           
and then to my own head and body, to signify that I desired my              
liberty. It appeared that he understood me well enough, for he shook        
his head by way of disapprobation, and held his hand in a posture to        
show that I must be carried as a prisoner. However, he made other           
signs to let me understand that I should have meat and drink enough,        
and very good treatment. Whereupon I once more thought of attempting        
to break my bonds, but again, when I felt the smart of their arrows         
upon my face and hands, which were all in blisters, and many of the         
darts still sticking in them, and observing likewise that the number        
of my enemies increased, I gave tokens to let them know that they           
might do with me what they pleased. Upon this the Hurgo and his             
train withdrew with much civility and cheerful countenances. Soon           
after I heard a general shout, with frequent repetitions of the words,      
Peplom selan, and I felt great numbers of the people on my left side        
relaxing the cords to such a degree, that I was able to turn upon my        
right, and to ease myself with making water; which I very                   
plentifully did, to the great astonishment of the who conjecturing          
by my motions what I was going to do, immediately opened to the             
right and left on that side, to avoid the torrent which fell with such      
noise and violence from me. But before this, they had daubed my face        
and both my hands with a sort of ointment very pleasant to the              
smell, which in a few minutes removed all the smart of their arrows.        
These circumstances, added to the refreshment I had received by             
their victuals and drink, which were very nourishing, disposed me to        
sleep. I slept about eight hours, as I was afterwards assured; and          
it was no wonder, for the physicians, by the Emperor's order, had           
mingled a sleepy potion in the hogsheads of wine.                           
                                                     {P_1|CH_1 ^paragraph 5}
  It seems that upon the first moment I was discovered sleeping on the      
ground after my landing, the Emperor had early notice of it by an           
express; and determined in council that I should be tied in the manner      
I have related (which was done in the night while I slept), that            
plenty of meat and drink should be sent me, and a machine prepared          
to carry me to the capital city.                                            
  This resolution perhaps may appear very bold and dangerous, and I am      
confident would not be imitated by any prince in Europe on the like         
occasion; however, in my opinion, it was extremely prudent, as well as      
generous. For supposing these people had endeavored to kill me with         
their spears and arrows while I was asleep, I should certainly have         
awakened with the first sense of smart, which might so far have roused      
my rage and strength, as to have enabled me to break the strings            
wherewith I was tied; after which, as they were not able to make            
resistance, so they could expect no mercy.                                  
  These people are most excellent mathematicians, and arrived to great      
perfection in mechanics by the countenance and encouragement of the         
Emperor, who is a renowned patron of learning. This prince has several      
machines fixed on wheels for the carriage of trees and other great          
weights. He often builds his largest men of war, whereof some are nine      
feet long, in the woods where the timber grows, and has them carried        
on these engines three or four hundred yards to the sea. Five               
hundred carpenters and engineers were immediately set at work to            
prepare the greatest engine they had. It was a frame of wood raised         
three inches from the ground, about seven feet long and four wide,          
moving upon twenty-two wheels. The shout I heard was upon the               
arrival of this engine, which it seems set out in four hours after          
my landing. It was brought parallel to me as I lay. But the                 
principal difficulty was to raise and place me in this vehicle. Eighty      
poles, each of one foot high, were erected for this purpose, and            
very strong cords of the bigness of packthread were fastened by             
hooks to many bandages, which the workmen had girt round my neck, my        
hands, my body, and my legs. Nine hundred of the strongest men were         
employed to draw up these cords by many pulleys fastened on the poles,      
and thus, in less than three hours, I was raised and slung into the         
engine, and there tied fast. All this I was told, for while the             
whole operation was performing, I lay in a profound sleep, by the           
force of that soporiferous medicine infused into my liquor. Fifteen         
hundred of the Emperor's largest horses, each about four inches and         
a half high, were employed to draw me towards the metropolis, which,        
as I said, was half a mile distant.                                         
  About four hours after we began our journey, I awaked by a very           
ridiculous accident; for the carriage being stopped a while to              
adjust something that was out of order, two or three of the young           
natives had the curiosity to see how I looked when I was asleep;            
they climbed up into the engine, and advancing very softly to my face,      
one of them, an officer in the Guards, put the sharp end of his             
half-pike a good way up into my left nostril, which tickled my nose         
like a straw, and made me sneeze violently: whereupon they stole off        
unperceived, and it was three weeks before I knew the cause of my           
awaking so suddenly. We made a long march the remaining part of that        
day, and rested at night with five hundred guards on each side of           
me, half with torches, and half with bows and arrows, ready to shoot        
me if I should offer to stir. The next morning at sunrise we continued      
our march, and arrived within two hundred yards of the city gates           
about noon. The Emperor, and all his court, came out to meet us; but        
his great officers would by no means suffer his Majesty to endanger         
his person by mounting on my body.                                          
  At the place where the carriage stopped, there stood an ancient           
temple, esteemed to be the largest in the whole kingdom, which              
having been polluted some years before by an unnatural murder, was,         
according to the zeal of those people, looked on as profane, and            
therefore had been applied to common uses, and all the ornaments and        
furniture carried away. In this edifice it was determined I should          
lodge. The great gate fronting to the north was about four feet             
high, and almost two feet wide, through which I could easily creep. On      
each side of the gate was a small window not above six inches from the      
ground: into that on the left side, the King's smiths conveyed              
fourscore and eleven chains, like those that hang to a lady's watch in      
Europe, and almost as large, which were locked to my left leg with six      
and thirty padlocks. Over against this temple, on the other side of         
the great highway, at twenty feet distance, there was a turret at           
least five feet high. Here the Emperor ascended with many principal         
lords of his court, to have an opportunity of viewing me, as I was          
told, for I could not see them. It was reckoned that above a hundred        
thousand inhabitants came out of the town upon the same errand; and in      
spite of my guards, I believe there could not be fewer than ten             
thousand, at several times, who mounted upon my body by the help of         
ladders. But a proclamation was soon issued to forbid it upon pain          
of death. When the workmen found it was impossible for me to break          
loose, they cut all the strings that bound me; whereupon I rose up          
with as melancholy a disposition as ever I had in my life. But the          
noise and astonishment of the people at seeing me rise and walk, are        
not to be expressed. The chains that held my left leg were about two        
yards long, and gave me not only the liberty of walking backwards           
and forwards in a semi-circle; but, being fixed within four inches          
of the gate, allowed me to creep in, and lie at my full length in           
the temple.                                                                 
                                                                            
P_1|CH_2                                                                    
  CHAPTER II                                                                
-                                                                           
  When I found myself on my feet, I looked about me, and must               
confess I never beheld a more entertaining prospect. The country round      
appeared like a continued garden, and the inclosed fields, which            
were generally forty feet square, resembled so many beds of flowers.        
These fields were intermingled with woods of half a sting, and the          
tallest trees, as I could judge, appeared to be seven feet high. I          
viewed the town on my left hand, which looked like the painted scene        
of a city in a theatre.                                                     
  I had been for some hours extremely pressed by the necessities of         
nature; which was no wonder, it being almost two days since I had last      
unburdened myself. I was under great difficulties between urgency           
and shame. The best expedient I could think of, was to creep into my        
house, which I accordingly did; and shutting the gate after me, I went      
as far as the length of my chain would suffer, and discharged my            
body of that uneasy load. But this was the only time I was ever guilty      
of so uncleanly an action; for which I cannot but hope the candid           
reader will give some allowance, after he has maturely and impartially      
considered my case, and the distress I was in. From this time my            
constant practice was, as soon as I rose, to perform that business          
in open air, at the full extent of my chain, and due care was taken         
every morning before company came, that the offensive matter should be      
carried off in wheelbarrows, by two servants appointed for that             
purpose. I would not have dwelt so long upon a circumstance, that           
perhaps at first sight may appear not very momentous, if I had not          
thought it necessary to justify my character in point of cleanliness        
to the world; which I am told some of my maligners have been                
pleased, upon this and other occasions, to call in question.                
  When this adventure was at an end, I came back out of my house,           
having occasion for fresh air. The Emperor was already descended            
from the tower, and advancing on horseback towards me, which had            
like to have cost him dear; for the beast, though very well trained,        
yet wholly unused to such a sight, which appeared as if a mountain          
moved before him, he reared up on his hinder feet: but that prince,         
who is an excellent horseman, kept his seat, till his attendants ran        
in, and held the bridle, while his Majesty had time to dismount.            
When he alighted, he surveyed me round with great admiration, but kept      
without the length of my chain. He ordered his cooks and butlers,           
who were already prepared, to give me victuals and drink, which they        
pushed forward in a sort of vehicle upon wheels till I could reach          
them. I took these vehicles, and soon emptied them all; twenty of them      
were filled with meat, and ten with liquor; each of the former              
afforded me two or three good mouthfuls, and I emptied the liquor of        
ten vessels, which was contained in earthen vials, into one vehicle,        
drinking it off at a draught; and so I did with the rest. The Empress,      
and young Princes of the blood, of both sexes, attended by many             
ladies, sat at some distance in their chairs; but upon the accident         
that happened to the Emperor's horse, they alighted, and came near his      
person, which I am now going to describe. He is taller by almost the        
breadth of my nail than any of his court, which alone is enough to          
strike an awe into the beholders. His features are strong and               
masculine, with an Austrian lip and arched nose, his complexion olive,      
his countenance erect, his body and limbs well proportioned, all his        
motions graceful, and his deportment majestic. He was then past his         
prime, being twenty-eight years and three quarters old, of which he         
had reigned about seven, in great felicity, and generally                   
victorious. For the better convenience of beholding him, I lay on my        
side, so that my face was parallel to his, and he stood but three           
yards off: however, I have had him since many times in my hand, and         
therefore cannot be deceived in the description. His dress was very         
plain and simple, and the fashion of it between the Asiatic and the         
European; but he had on his head a light helmet of gold, adorned            
with jewels, and a plume on the crest. He held his sword drawn in           
his hand, to defend himself, if I should happen to break loose; it was      
almost three inches long, the hilt and scabbard were gold enriched          
with diamonds. His voice was shrill, but very clear and articulate,         
and I could distinctly hear it when I stood up. The ladies and              
courtiers were all most magnificently clad, so that the spot they           
stood upon seemed to resemble a petticoat spread on the ground,             
embroidered with figures of gold and silver. His Imperial Majesty           
spoke often to me, and I returned answers, but neither of us could          
understand a syllable. There were several of his priests and lawyers        
present (as I conjectured by their habits) who were commanded to            
address themselves to me, and I spoke to them in as many languages          
as I had the least smattering of, which were High and Low Dutch,            
Latin, French, Spanish, Italian, and Lingua Franca; but all to no           
purpose. After about two hours the court retired, and I was left            
with a strong guard, to prevent the impertinence, and probably the          
malice of the rabble, who were very impatient to crowd about me as          
near as they dare, and some of them had the impudence to shoot their        
arrows at me as I sat on the ground by the door of my house, whereof        
one very narrowly missed my left eye. But the colonel ordered six of        
the ringleaders to be seized, and thought no punishment so proper as        
to deliver them bound into my hands, which some of his soldiers             
accordingly did, pushing them forwards with the butt-ends of their          
pikes into my reach; I took them all in my right hand, put five of          
them into my coat pocket, and as to the sixth, I made a countenance as      
if I would eat him alive. The poor man squalled terribly, and the           
colonel and his officers were in much pain, especially when they saw        
me take out my penknife: but I soon put them out of fear; for, looking      
mildly, and immediately cutting the strings he was bound with, I set        
him gently on the ground, and away he ran. I treated the rest in the        
same manner, taking them one by one out of my pocket, and I observed        
both the soldiers and people were highly obliged at this mark of my         
clemency, which was represented very much to my advantage at court.         
  Towards night I with some difficulty got into my house, where I           
lay on the ground, and continued to do so about a fortnight; during         
which time the Emperor gave orders to have a bed prepared for me.           
Six hundred beds of the common measure were brought in carriages,           
and worked up in my house; a hundred and fifty of their beds sewn           
together made up the breadth and length, and these were four double,        
which however kept me but very indifferently from the hardness of           
the floor, that was of smooth stone. By the same computation they           
provided me with sheets, blankets, and coverlets, tolerable enough for      
one who had been so long inured to hardships as I.                          
  As the news of my arrival spread through the kingdom, it brought          
prodigious numbers of rich, idle, and curious people to see me; so          
that the villages were almost emptied, and great neglect of tillage         
and household affairs must have ensued, if his Imperial Majesty had         
not provided, by several proclamations and orders of state, against         
this inconveniency. He directed that those who had already beheld me        
should return home, and not presume to come within fifty yards of my        
house without license from court; whereby the secretaries of state got      
considerable fees.                                                          
                                                     {P_1|CH_2 ^paragraph 5}
  In the meantime, the Emperor held frequent councils to debate what        
course should be taken with me; and I was afterwards assured by a           
particular friend, a person of great quality, who was looked upon to        
be as much in the secret as any, that the court was under many              
difficulties concerning me. They apprehended my breaking loose, that        
my diet would be very expensive, and might cause a famine. Sometimes        
they determined to starve me, or at least to shoot me in the face           
and hands with poisoned arrows, which would soon dispatch me: but           
again they considered, that the stench of so large a carcass might          
produce a plague in the metropolis, and probably spread through the         
whole kingdom. In the midst of these consultations, several officers        
of the army went to the door of the great council chamber; and two          
of them being admitted, gave an account of my behavior to the six           
criminals above mentioned, which made so favorable an impression in         
the breast of his Majesty and the whole board in my behalf, that an         
Imperial Commission was issued out, obliging all the villages nine          
hundred yards round the city, to deliver in every morning six               
beeves, forty sheep, and other victuals for my sustenance; together         
with a proportionable quantity of bread, and wine, and other liquors        
for the due payment of which his Majesty gave assignments upon his          
treasury. For this prince lives chiefly upon his own demesnes, seldom,      
except upon great occasions, raising any subsidies upon his                 
subjects, who are bound to attend him in his wars at their own              
expense. An establishment was-also made of six hundred persons to be        
my domestics, who had board-wages allowed for their maintenance, and        
tents built for them very conveniently on each side of my door. It was      
likewise ordered, that three hundred tailors should make me a suit          
of clothes after the fashion of the country: that six of his Majesty's      
greatest scholars should be employed to instruct me in their language:      
and, lastly, that the Emperor's horses, and those of the nobility, and      
troops of guards, should be frequently exercised in my sight, to            
accustom themselves to me. All these orders were duly put in                
execution, and in about three weeks I made a great progress in              
learning their language; during which time the Emperor frequently           
honored me with his visits, and was pleased to assist my masters in         
teaching me. We began already to converse together in some sort; and        
the first words I learned were to express my desire that he would           
please give me my liberty, which I every day repeated on my knees. His      
answer, as I could apprehend it, was, that this must be a work of           
time, not to be thought on without the advice of his council, and that      
first I must Lumos kelmin pesso desmar lon Emposo; that is, swear a         
peace with him and his kingdom. However, that I should be used with         
all kindness; and he advised me to acquire, by my patience and              
discreet behavior, the good opinion of himself and his subjects. He         
desired I would not take it ill, if he gave orders to certain proper        
officers to search me; for probably I might carry about me several          
weapons, which must needs be dangerous things, if they answered the         
bulk of so prodigious a person. I said, his Majesty should be               
satisfied, for I was ready to strip myself, and turn out my pockets         
before him. This I delivered part in words, and part in signs. He           
replied, that by the laws of the kingdom I must be searched by two          
of his officers; that he knew this could not be done without my             
consent and assistance; that he had so good an opinion of my                
generosity and justice, as to trust their persons in my hands: that         
whatever they took from me should be returned when I left the country,      
or paid for at the rate which I would set upon them. I took up the two      
officers in my hands, put them first into my coat-pockets, and then         
into every other pocket about me, except my two fobs, and another           
secret pocket I had no mind should be searched, wherein I had some          
little necessaries that were of no consequence to any but myself. In        
one of my fobs there was a silver watch, and in the other a small           
quantity of gold in a purse. These gentlemen, having pen, ink, and          
paper about them, made an exact inventory of everything they saw;           
and when they were through, desired I would set them down, that they        
might deliver it to the Emperor. This inventory I afterwards                
translated that into English, and is word for word as follows.              
-                                                                           
  Imprimis, In the right coat pocket of the Great Man Mountain (for so      
I interpret the words Quinbus Flestrin) after the strictest search, we      
found only one great piece of coarse cloth, large enough to be a            
foot cloth for your Majesty's chief room of state. In the left              
pocket we saw a huge silver chest, with a cover of the same metal,          
which we the searchers were not able to lift. We desired it should          
be opened, and one of us stepping into it, found himself up to the mid      
leg in a sort of dust, some part whereof flying up to our faces, set        
us both sneezing for several times together. In his right waistcoat         
pocket we found a prodigious bundle of white thin substances, folded        
one over another, about the bigness of three men, tied with a strong        
cable, and marked with black figures; which we humbly conceive to be        
writings, every letter almost half as large as the palm of our              
hands. In the left there was a sort of engine, from the back of             
which were extended twenty long poles, resembling the palisades before      
your Majesty's court; wherewith we conjecture the Man-Mountain combs        
his head, for we did not always trouble him with questions, because we      
found it a great difficulty to make him understand us. In the large         
pocket on the right side of his middle cover (so I translate the            
word ranfu-lo, by which they meant my breeches) we saw a hollow pillar      
of iron, about the length of a man, fastened to a strong piece of           
timber, larger than the pillar; and upon one side of the pillar were        
huge pieces of iron sticking out, cut into strange figures, which we        
know not what to make of. In the left pocket, another engine of the         
same kind. In the smaller pocket on the right side, were several round      
flat pieces of white and red metal, of different bulk; some of the          
white, which seemed to be silver, were so large and heavy, that my          
comrade and I could hardly lift them. In the left pocket were two           
black pillars irregularly shaped: we could not, without difficulty,         
reach the top of them as we stood at the bottom of his pocket. One          
of them was covered, and seemed all of a piece: but at the upper end        
of the other, there appeared a white round substance, about twice           
the bigness of our heads. Within each of these was enclosed a               
prodigious plate of steel; which, by our orders, we obliged him to          
show us, because we apprehended they might be dangerous engines. He         
took them out of their cases, and told us, that in his own country his      
practice was to shave his beard with one of these, and to cut his meat      
with the other. There were two pockets which we could not enter: these      
he called his fobs; they were two large slits cut into the top of           
his middle cover, but squeezed close by the pressure of his belly. Out      
of the right fob hung a great silver chain, with a wonderful kind of        
engine at the bottom. We directed him to draw out whatever was              
fastened to that chain; which appeared to be a globe, half silver, and      
half of some transparent metal: for on the transparent side we saw          
certain strange figures circularly drawn, and thought we could touch        
them, till we found our fingers stopped by that lucid substance. He         
put this engine to our ears, which made an incessant noise like that        
of a watermill: and we conjecture it is either some unknown animal, or      
the god that he worships; but we are more inclined to the latter            
opinion, because he assured us (if we understood him right, for he          
expressed himself very imperfectly) that he seldom did anything             
without consulting it: he called it his oracle, and said it pointed         
out the time for every action of his life. From the left fob he took        
out a net almost large enough for a fisherman, but contrived to open        
and shut like a purse, and serve him for the same use: we found             
therein several massy pieces of yellow metal, which, if they be real        
gold, must be of immense value.                                             
  Having thus, in obedience to your Majesty's commands, diligently          
searched all his pockets, we observed a girdle about his waist made of      
the hide of some prodigious animal; from which, on the left side, hung      
a sword of the length of five men; and on the right, a bag or pouch         
divided into two cells, each cell capable of holding three of your          
Majesty's subjects. In one of these cells were several globes or balls      
of a most ponderous metal, about the bigness of our heads, and              
requiring a strong hand to lift them: the other cell contained a            
heap of certain black grains, but of no great bulk or weight, for we        
could hold above fifty of them in the palms of our hands.                   
  This is an exact inventory of what we found about the body of the         
Man-Mountain, who used us with great civility, and due respect to your      
Majesty's commission. Signed and sealed on the fourth day of the            
eighty-ninth moon of your Majesty's auspicious reign.                       
                                                    {P_1|CH_2 ^paragraph 10}
                                   Clefren Frelock, Marsi Frelock.          
-                                                                           
-                                                                           
  When this inventory was read over to the Emperor, he directed me,         
although in very gentle terms, to deliver up the several                    
particulars. He first called for my scimitar, which I took out,             
scabbard and all. In the meantime he ordered three thousand of his          
choicest troops (who then attended him) to surround me at a                 
distance, with their bows and arrows just ready to discharge: but I         
did not observe it, for my eyes were wholly fixed upon his Majesty. He      
then desired me to draw my scimitar, which, although it had got some        
rust by the sea water, was in most parts exceeding bright. I did so,        
and immediately all the troops gave a shout between terror and              
surprise; for the sun shone clear, and the reflection dazzled their         
eyes as I waved the scimitar to and fro in my hand. His Majesty, who        
is a most magnanimous prince, was less daunted than I could expect; he      
ordered me to return it into the scabbard, and cast it on the ground        
as gently as I could, about six foot from the end of my chain. The          
next thing he demanded was one of the hollow iron pillars, by which he      
meant my pocket-pistols. I drew it out, and at his desire, as well          
as I could, expressed to him the use of it; and charging it only            
with powder, which by the closeness of my pouch happened to escape          
wetting in the sea (an inconvenience against which all prudent              
mariners take special care to provide) I first cautioned the Emperor        
not to be afraid, and then I let it off in the air. The astonishment        
here was much greater than at the sight of my scimitar. Hundreds            
fell down as if they had been struck dead; and even the Emperor,            
although he stood his ground, could not recover himself in some             
time. I delivered up both my pistols in the same manner as I had            
done my scimitar, and then my pouch of powder and bullets; begging him      
that the former might be kept from the fire, for it would kindle            
with the smallest spark, and blow up his imperial palace into the air.      
I likewise delivered up my watch, which the Emperor was very curious        
to see, and commanded two of his tallest yeomen of the guards to            
bear it on a pole upon their shoulders, as draymen in England do a          
barrel of ale. He was amazed at the continual noise it made, and the        
motion of the minute-hand, which he could easily discern; for their         
sight is much more acute than ours; and asked the opinions of his           
learned men about him, which were various and remote, as the reader         
may well imagine without my repeating; although indeed I could not          
very perfectly understand them. I then gave up my silver and copper         
money, my purse with nine large pieces of gold, and some smaller ones;      
my knife and razor, my comb and silver snuff-box, my handkerchief and       
journal-book. My scimitar, pistols, and pouch, were conveyed in             
carriages to his Majesty's stores; but the rest of my goods were            
returned me.                                                                
  I had, as I before observed, one private pocket which escaped             
their search, wherein there was a pair of spectacles (which I               
sometimes use for the weakness of my eyes), a pocket perspective,           
and several other little conveniences; which, being of no                   
consequence to the Emperor, I did not think myself bound in honor to        
discover, and I apprehended they might be lost or spoiled if I              
ventured them out of my possession.                                         
                                                                            
P_1|CH_3                                                                    
  CHAPTER III                                                               
-                                                                           
  My gentleness and good behavior had gained so far on the Emperor and      
his court, and indeed upon the army and people in general, that I           
began to conceive hopes of getting my liberty in a short time. I            
took all possible methods to cultivate this favorable disposition. The      
natives came by degrees to be less apprehensive of any danger from me.      
I would sometimes lie down, and let five or six of them dance on my         
hand. And last the boys and girls would venture to come and play at         
hide and seek in my hair. I had now made good progress in                   
understanding and speaking their language. The Emperor had a mind           
one day to entertain me with several of the country shows, wherein          
they exceeded all nations I have known, both for dexterity and              
magnificence. I was diverted with none so much as that of the               
rope-dancers, performed upon a slender white thread, extended about         
two feet, and twelve inches from the ground. Upon which I shall desire      
liberty, with the reader's patience, to enlarge a little.                   
  This diversion is only practiced by those persons who are candidates      
for great employments and high favors at court. They are trained in         
this art from their youth, and are not always of noble birth, or            
liberal education. When a great office is vacant either by death or         
disgrace (which often happens) five or six of those candidates              
petition the Emperor to entertain his Majesty and the court with a          
dance on the rope, and whoever jumps the highest without falling,           
succeeds in the office. Very often the chief ministers themselves           
are commanded to show their skill, and to convince the Emperor that         
they have not lost their faculty. Flimnap, the Treasurer, is allowed        
to cut a caper on the straight rope, at least an inch higher than           
any other lord in the whole empire. I have seen him do the summerset        
several times together upon a trencher fixed on the rope, which is          
no thicker than a common packthread in England. My friend Reldresal,        
principal Secretary for Private Affairs, is, in my opinion, if I am         
not partial, the second after the Treasurer; the rest of the great          
officers are much upon a par.                                               
  These diversions are often attended with fatal accidents, whereof         
great numbers are on record. I myself have seen two or three                
candidates break a limb. But the danger is much greater when the            
ministers themselves are commanded to show their dexterity; for by          
contending to excell themselves and their fellows, they strain so far,      
that there is hardly one of them who has not received a fall, and some      
of them two or three. I was assured that a year or two before my            
arrival, Flimnap would have infallibly broken his neck, if one of           
the King's cushions, that accidentally lay on the ground, had not           
weakened the force of his fall.                                             
  There is likewise another diversion, which is only shown before           
the Emperor and Empress, and first minister, upon particular                
occasions. The Emperor lays on the table three fine silken threads          
of six inches long. One is blue, the other red, and the third green.        
These threads are proposed as prizes for those persons whom the             
Emperor has a mind to distinguish by a peculiar mark of his favor. The      
ceremony is performed in his Majesty's great chamber of state, where        
the candidates are to undergo a trial of dexterity very different from      
the former, and such as I have not observed the least resemblance of        
in any other country of the old or the new world. The Emperor holds         
a stick in his hands, both ends parallel to the horizon, while the          
candidates, advancing one by one, sometimes leap over the stick,            
sometimes creep under it backwards and forwards several times,              
according as the stick is advanced or depressed. Sometimes the Emperor      
holds one end of the stick, and his first minister the other;               
sometimes the minister has it entirely to himself. Whoever performs         
his part with most agility, and holds out the longest in leaping and        
creeping, is rewarded with the blue-colored silk; the red is given          
to the next, and the green to the third, which they all wear girt           
twice round about the middle; and you see few great persons about this      
court who are not adorned with one of these girdles.                        
  The horses of the army, and those of the royal stables, having            
been daily led before me, were no longer shy, but would come up to          
my very feet without starting. The riders would leap them over my hand      
as I held it on the ground, and one of the Emperor's huntsmen, upon         
a large courser, took my foot, shoe and all; which was indeed a             
prodigious leap. I had the good fortune to divert the Emperor one           
day after a very extraordinary manner. I desired he would order             
several sticks two feet high, and the thickness of an ordinary cane,        
to be brought me; whereupon his Majesty commanded the master of his         
woods to give directions accordingly; and the next morning six woodmen      
arrived with as many carriages, drawn by eight horses to each. I            
took nine of these sticks, and fixing them firmly in the ground in a        
quadrangular figure, two feet and a half square, I took four other          
sticks, and tied them parallel at each corner, about two feet from the      
ground; then I fastened my handkerchief to the nine sticks that             
stood erect, and extended it on all sides till it was as tight as           
the top of a drum; and the four parallel sticks rising about five           
inches higher than the handkerchief served as ledges on each side.          
When I had finished my work, I desired the Emperor to let a troop of        
his best horse, twentyfour in number, come and exercise upon this           
plain. His Majesty approved of the proposal, and I took them up one by      
one in my hands, ready mounted and armed, with the proper officers          
to exercise them. As soon as they got into order, they divided into         
two parties, performed mock skirmishes, discharged blunt arrows,            
drew their swords, fled and pursued, attacked and retired, and in           
short discovered the best military discipline I ever beheld. The            
parallel sticks secured them and their horses from falling over the         
stage; and the Emperor was so much delighted, that he ordered this          
entertainment to be repeated several days, and once was pleased to          
be lifted up and give the word of command; and, with great difficulty,      
persuaded even the Empress herself to let me hold her in her close          
chair within two yards of the stage, from whence she was able to            
take a full view of the whole performance. It was my good fortune that      
no ill accident happened in these entertainments, only once a fiery         
horse that belonged to one of the captains pawing with his hoof struck      
a hole in my handkerchief, and his foot slipping, he overthrew his          
rider and himself; but I immediately relieved them both, and                
covering the hole with one hand, I set down the troop with the              
other, in the same manner as I took them up. The horse that fell was        
strained in the left shoulder, but the rider got no hurt, and I             
repaired my handkerchief as well as I could: however I would not trust      
to the strength of it any more in such dangerous enterprises.               
                                                     {P_1|CH_3 ^paragraph 5}
  About two or three days before I was set at liberty, as I was             
entertaining the court with these kind of feats, there arrived an           
express to inform his Majesty that some of his subjects riding near         
the place where I was first taken up, had seen a great black substance      
lying on the ground, very oddly shaped, extending its edges round as        
wide as his Majesty's bedchamber, and rising up in the middle as            
high as a man; that it was no living creature, as they at first             
apprehended, for it lay on the grass without motion, and some of            
them had walked round it several tunes: that by mounting upon each          
other's shoulders, they had got to the top, which was flat and even,        
and stamping upon it they found it was hollow within; that they humbly      
conceived it might be something belonging to the Man-Mountain, and          
if his Majesty pleased, they would undertake to bring it with only          
five horses. I presently knew what they meant, and was glad at heart        
to receive this intelligence. It seems upon my first reaching the           
shore after our shipwreck, I was in such confusion, that before I came      
to the place where I went to sleep, my hat, which I had fastened            
with a string to my head while I was rowing, and had stuck on all           
the time I was swimming, fell off after I came to land; the string, as      
I conjecture, breaking by some accident which I never observed, but         
thought my hat had been lost at sea. I entreated his Imperial               
Majesty to give orders it might be brought to me as soon as                 
possible, describing to him the use and the nature of it: and the next      
day the wagoners arrived with it, but not in a very good condition;         
they had bored two holes in the brim, within an inch and a half of the      
edge, and fastened two hooks in the holes; these hooks were tied by         
a long cord to the harness, and thus my hat was dragged along for           
above half an English mile: but the ground in that country being            
extremely smooth and level, it received less damage than I expected.        
  Two days after this adventure, the Emperor having ordered that            
part of his army which quarters in and about his metropolis to be in a      
readiness, took a fancy of diverting himself in a very singular             
manner. He desired I would stand like a Colossus, with my legs as           
far asunder as I conveniently could. He then commanded his General          
(who was an old experienced leader, and a great patron of mine) to          
draw up the troops in close order, and march them under me, the foot        
by twentyfour in a breast, and the horse by sixteen, with drums             
beating, colors flying, and pikes advanced. This body consisted of          
three thousand foot, and a thousand horse. His Majesty gave orders,         
upon pain of death, that every soldier in his march should observe the      
strictest decency with regard to my person; which, however, could           
not prevent some of the younger officers from turning up their eyes as      
they passed under me. And, to confess the truth, my breeches were at        
that time in so ill a condition, that they afforded some opportunities      
for laughter and admiration.                                                
  I had sent so many memorials and petitions for my liberty, that           
his Majesty at length mentioned the matter, first in the cabinet,           
and then in a full council; where it was opposed by none, except            
Skyresh Bolgolam, who was pleased, without any provocation, to be my        
mortal enemy. But it was carried against him by the whole board, and        
confirmed by the Emperor. That minister was Galbet, or Admiral of           
the Realm, very much in his master's confidence, and a person well          
versed in affairs, but of a morose and sour complexion. However, he         
was at length persuaded to comply; but prevailed that the articles and      
conditions upon which I should be set free, and to which I must swear,      
should be drawn up by himself. These articles were brought to me by         
Skyresh Bolgolam in person, attended by two under-secretaries, and          
several persons of distinction. After they were read, I was demanded        
to swear to the performance of them; first in the manner of my own          
country, and afterwards in the method prescribed by their laws;             
which was to hold my right foot in my left hand, to place the middle        
finger of my right hand on the crown of my head, and my thumb on the        
tip of my right ear. But because the reader may perhaps be curious          
to have some idea of the style and manner of expression peculiar to         
that people, as well as to know the articles upon which I recovered my      
liberty, I have made a translation of the whole instrument word for         
word, as near as I was able, which I here offer to the public.              
-                                                                           
  GOLBASTO MOMAREN EVLAME GURDILO SHEFIN MULLY ULLY GUE, most mighty        
Emperor of Lilliput, delight and terror of the universe, whose              
dominions extend five thousand blustrugs (about twelve miles in             
circumference) to the extremities of the globe; monarch of all              
monarchs, taller than the sons of men; whose feet press down to the         
center, and whose head strikes against the sun; at whose nod the            
princes of the earth shake their knees; pleasant as the spring,             
comfortable as the summer, fruitful as autumn, dreadful as winter. His      
most sublime Majesty proposes to the Man-Mountain, lately arrived to        
our celestial dominions, the following articles, which by a solemn          
oath he shall be obliged to perform.                                        
                                                    {P_1|CH_3 ^paragraph 10}
  First, The Man-Mountain shall not depart from our dominions, without      
our license under our great seal.                                           
  2nd, He shall not presume to come into our metropolis, without our        
express order; at which time the inhabitants shall have two hours           
warning to keep within their doors.                                         
  3rd, The said Man-Mountain shall confine his walks to our                 
principal high roads, and not offer to walk or lie down in a meadow or      
field of corn.                                                              
  4th, As he walks the said roads, he shall take the utmost care not        
to trample upon the bodies of any of our loving subjects, their             
horses, or carriages, nor take any of our said subjects into his            
hands, without their own consent.                                           
  5th, If an express requires extraordinary dispatch, the Man-Mountain      
shall be obliged to carry in his pocket the messenger and horse a           
six days journey once in every moon, and return the said messenger          
back (if so required) safe to our Imperial Presence.                        
                                                    {P_1|CH_3 ^paragraph 15}
  6th, He shall be our ally against our enemies in the Island of            
Blefuscu, and do his utmost to destroy their fleet, which is now            
preparing to invade us.                                                     
  7th, That the said Man-Mountain shall, at his times of leisure, be        
aiding and assisting to our workmen, in helping to raise certain great      
stones, towards covering the wall of the principal park, and other          
of our royal buildings.                                                     
  8th, That the said Man-Mountain shall, in two moons' time, deliver        
in an exact survey of the circumference of our dominions by a               
computation of his own paces round the coast.                               
   Lastly, That upon his solemn oath to observe all the above               
articles, the said Man-Mountain shall have a daily allowance of meat        
and drink sufficient for the support of 1,728 of our subjects, with         
free access to our Royal Person, and other marks of our favor. Given        
at our Palace at Belfaborac the twelfth day of the ninety-first moon        
of our reign.                                                               
-                                                                           
                                                    {P_1|CH_3 ^paragraph 20}
  I swore and subscribed to these articles with great cheerfulness and      
content, although some of them were not so honorable as I could have        
wished; which proceeded wholly from the malice of Skyresh Bolgolam the      
High Admiral: whereupon my chains were immediately unlocked, and I was      
at full liberty; the Emperor himself in person did me the honor to          
be by at the whole ceremony. I made my acknowledgments by                   
prostrating myself at his Majesty's feet: but he commanded me to rise;      
and after many gracious expressions, which, to avoid the censure of         
vanity, I shall not repeat, he added, that he hoped I should prove a        
useful servant, and well deserve all the favors he had already              
conferred upon me, or might do for the future.                              
  The reader may please to observe, that in the last article for the        
recovery of my liberty the Emperor stipulates to allow me a quantity        
of meat and drink sufficient for the support of 1,728 Lilliputians.         
Some time after, asking a friend at court how they came to fix on that      
determinate number, he told me that his Majesty's mathematicians,           
having taken the height of my body by the help of a quadrant, and           
finding it to exceed theirs in the proportion of twelve to one, they        
concluded from the similarity of their bodies, that mine must               
contain at least 1,728 of theirs, and consequently would require as         
much food as was necessary to support that number of Lilliputians.          
By which the reader may conceive an idea of the ingenuity of that           
people, as well as the prudent and exact economy of so great a prince.      
                                                                            
P_1|CH_4                                                                    
  CHAPTER IV                                                                
-                                                                           
  The first request I made after I had obtained my liberty, was,            
that I might have license to see Mildendo, the metropolis, which the        
Emperor easily granted me, but with a special charge to do no hurt          
either to the inhabitants or their houses. The people had notice by         
proclamation of my design to visit the town. The wall which                 
encompassed it is two feet and a half high, and at least eleven inches      
broad, so that a coach and horses may be driven very safely round           
it; and it is flanked with strong towers at ten feet distance. I            
stepped over the great Gate, and passed very gently, and sidering           
through the two principal streets, only in my short waistcoat, for          
fear of damaging the roofs and eaves of the houses with the skirts          
of my coat. I walked with the utmost circumspection, to avoid treading      
on any stragglers, that might remain in the streets, although the           
orders were very strict, that all people should keep in their houses        
at their own peril. The garret windows and tops of houses were so           
crowded with spectators, that I thought in all my travels I had not         
seen a more populous place. The city is an exact square, each side          
of the wall being five hundred feet long. The two great streets, which      
run cross and divide it into four quarters, are five feet wide. The         
lanes and alleys, which I could not enter, but only viewed them as I        
passed, are from twelve to eighteen inches. The town is capable of          
holding five hundred thousand souls. The houses are from three to five      
stories. The shops and markets well provided.                               
  The Emperor's palace is in the centre of the city, where the two          
great streets meet. It is enclosed by a wall of two feet high, and          
twenty feet distant from the buildings. I had his Majesty's permission      
to step over this wall; and the space being so wide between that and        
the palace, I could easily view it on every side. The outward court is      
a square of forty feet, and includes two other courts: in the inmost        
are the royal apartments, which I was very desirous to see, but             
found it extremely difficult; for the great gates, from one square          
into another, were but eighteen inches high and seven inches wide. Now      
the buildings of the outer court were at least five feet high, and          
it was impossible for me to stride over them without infinite damage        
to the pile, though the walls were strongly built of hewn stone, and        
four inches thick. At the same time the Emperor had a great desire          
that I should see the magnificence of his palace; but this I was not        
able to do till three days after, which I spent in cutting down with        
my knife some of the largest trees in the royal park, about a               
hundred yards distant from the city. Of these trees I made two stools,      
each about three feet high, and strong enough to bear my weight. The        
people having received notice a second time, I went again through           
the city to the palace, with my two stools in my hands. When I came to      
the side of the outer court, I stood upon one stool, and took the           
other in my hand: this I lifted over the roof, and gently set it            
down on the space between the first and second court, which was             
eight feet wide. I then stepped over the buildings very conveniently        
from one stool to the other, and drew up the first after me with a          
hooked stick. By this contrivance I got into the inmost court; and          
lying down upon my side, I applied my face to the windows of the            
middle stories, which were left open on purpose, and discovered the         
most splendid apartments that can be imagined. There I saw the Empress      
and the young Princes, in their several lodgings, with their chief          
attendants about them. Her Imperial Majesty was pleased to smile            
very graciously upon me, and gave me out of the window her hand to          
kiss.                                                                       
  But I shall not anticipate the reader with farther descriptions of        
this kind, because I reserve them for a greater work, which is now          
almost ready for the press, containing a general description of this        
empire, from its first erection, through a long series of princes,          
with a particular account of their wars and politics, laws,                 
learning, and religion: their plants and animals, their peculiar            
manners and customs, with other matters very curious and useful; my         
chief design at present being only to relate such events and                
transactions as happened to the public, or to myself, during a              
residence of about nine months in that empire.                              
  One morning, about a fortnight after I had obtained my liberty,           
Reldresal, principal Secretary (as they style him) of Private Affairs,      
came to my house attended only by one servant. He ordered his coach to      
wait at a distance, and desired I would give him an hour's audience;        
which I readily consented to, on account of his quality and personal        
merits, as well as the many good offices he had done me during my           
solicitations at court. I offered to lie down, that he might the            
more conveniently reach my ear; but he chose rather to let me hold him      
in my hand during our conversation. He began with compliments on my         
liberty; said he might pretend to some merit in it: but, however,           
added, that if it had not been for the present situation of things          
at court, perhaps I might not have obtained it so soon. For, said           
he, as flourishing a condition as we may appear to be in to                 
foreigners, we labor under two mighty evils; a violent faction at           
home, and the danger of an invasion by a most potent enemy from             
abroad. As to the first, you are to understand, that for above seventy      
moons past there have been two struggling parties in this empire,           
under the names of Tramecksan and Slamecksan, from the high and low         
heels on their shoes, by which they distinguish themselves. It is           
alleged indeed, that the high heels are most agreeable to our               
ancient constitution: but however this be, his Majesty has                  
determined to make use of only low heels in the administration of           
the government, and all offices in the gift of the Crown, as you            
cannot but observe; and particularly, that his Majesty's Imperial           
heels are lower at least by a drurr than any of his court; (drurr is a      
measure about the fourteenth part of an inch). The animosities between      
these two parties run so high, that they will neither eat nor drink,        
nor talk with each other. We compute the Tramecksan, or High-Heels, to      
exceed us in number; but the power is wholly on our side. We apprehend      
his Imperial Highness, the Heir to the Crown, to have some tendency         
towards the High-Heels; at least we can plainly discover one of his         
heels higher than the other, which gives him a hobble in his gait.          
Now, in the midst of these intestine disquiets, we are threatened with      
an invasion from the Island of Blefuscu, which is the other great           
empire of the universe, almost as large and powerful as this of his         
Majesty. For as to what we have heard you affirm, that there are other      
kingdoms and states in the world inhabited by human creatures as large      
as yourself, our philosophers are in much doubt, and would rather           
conjecture that you dropped from the moon, or one of the stars;             
because it is certain, that a hundred mortals of your bulk would, in a      
short time, destroy all the fruits and cattle of his Majesty's              
dominions. Besides, our histories of six thousand moons make no             
mention of any other regions, than the two great empires of Lilliput        
and Blefuscu. Which two mighty powers have, as I was going to tell          
you, been engaged in a most obstinate war for six and thirty moons          
past. It began upon the following occasion. It is allowed on all            
hands, that the primitive way of breaking eggs, before we eat them,         
was upon the larger end: but his present Majesty's grandfather,             
while he was a boy, going to eat an egg, and breaking it according          
to the ancient practice, happened to cut one of his fingers. Whereupon      
the Emperor his father published an edict, commanding all his               
subjects, upon great penalties, to break the smaller end of their           
eggs. The people so highly resented this law, that our histories            
tell us there have been six rebellions raised on that account; wherein      
one Emperor lost his life, and another his crown. These civil               
commotions were constantly fomented by the monarchs of Blefuscu; and        
when they were quelled, the exiles always fled for refuge to that           
empire. It is computed, that eleven thousand persons have, at               
several times, suffered death, rather than submit to break their            
eggs at the smaller end. Many hundred large volumes have been               
published upon this controversy: but the books of the Big-Endians have      
been long forbidden, and the whole party rendered incapable by law          
of holding employments. During the course of these troubles, the            
Emperors of Blefuscu did frequently expostulate by their                    
ambassadors, accusing us of making a schism in religion, by                 
offending against a fundamental doctrine of our great prophet Lustrog,      
in the fifty-fourth chapter of the Blundecral (which is their however,      
is thought to be a mere strain upon the text: for the words are these;      
That all true believers shall break their eggs at the convenient            
end: and which is the convenient end, seems, in my humble opinion,          
to be left to every man's conscience, or at least in the power of           
the chief magistrate to determine. Now the Big-Endian exiles have           
found so much credit in the Emperor of Blefuscu's court, and so much        
private assistance and encouragement from their party here at home,         
that a bloody war has been carried on between the two empires for           
six and thirty moons with various success; during which time we have        
lost forty capital ships, and a much greater number of smaller              
vessels, together with thirty thousand of our best seamen and               
soldiers; and the damage received by the enemy is reckoned to be            
somewhat greater than ours. However, they have now equipped a numerous      
fleet, and are just preparing to make a descent upon us; and his            
Imperial Majesty, placing great confidence in your valor and strength,      
has commanded me to lay this account of his affairs before you.             
  I desired the Secretary to present my humble duty to the Emperor,         
and to let him know, that I thought it would not become me, who was         
a foreigner, to interfere with parties; but I was ready, with the           
hazard of my life, to defend his person and state against all               
invaders.                                                                   
                                                                            
P_1|CH_5                                                                    
  CHAPTER V                                                                 
-                                                                           
  The Empire of Blefuscu is an island situated to the                       
north-northeast side of Lilliput, from whence it is parted only by a        
channel of eight hundred yards wide. I had not yet seen it, and upon        
this notice of an intended invasion, I avoided appearing on that            
side of the coast, for fear of being discovered by some of the enemy's      
ships, who had received no intelligence of me, all intercourse between      
the two empires having been strictly forbidden during the war, upon         
pain of death, and an embargo laid by our Emperor upon all vessels          
whatsoever. I communicated to his Majesty a project I had formed of         
seizing the enemy's whole fleet: which, as our scouts assured us,           
lay at anchor in the harbor ready to sail with the first fair wind.         
I consulted the most experienced seamen, upon the depth of the              
channel, which they had often plumbed, who told me, that in the middle      
at high-water it was seventy glumgluffs deep, which is about six            
feet of European measure; and the rest of it fifty glumgluffs at most.      
I walked towards the northeast coast over against Blefuscu; and             
lying down behind a hillock, took out my small pocket perspective           
glass, and viewed the enemy's fleet at anchor, consisting of about          
fifty men of war, and a great number of transports; I then came back        
to my house, and gave order (for which I had a warrant) for a great         
quantity of the strongest cable and bars of iron. The cable was             
about as thick as packthread, and the bars of the length and size of a      
knitting needle. I trebled the cable to make it stronger, and for           
the same reason I twisted three of the iron bars together, binding the      
extremities into a hook. Having thus fixed fifty hooks to as many           
cables, I went back to the northeast coast, and putting off my coat,        
shoes, and stockings, walked into the sea in my leather jerkin,             
about half an hour before high water. I waded with what haste I could,      
and swam in the middle about thirty yards till I felt ground; I             
arrived at the fleet in less than half an hour. The enemy was so            
frighted when they saw me, that they leaped out of their ships, and         
swam to shore, where there could not be fewer than thirty thousand          
souls. I then took my tackling, and fastening a hook to a hole at           
the prow of each, I tied all the cords together at the end. While I         
was thus employed, the enemy discharged several thousand arrows,            
many of which stuck in my hands and face; and besides the excessive         
smart, gave me much disturbance in my work. My greatest apprehension        
was for my eyes, which I should have infallibly lost, if I had not          
suddenly thought of an expedient. I kept among other little                 
necessaries a pair of spectacles in a private pocket, which, as I           
observed before, had escaped the Emperor's searchers. These I took out      
and fastened as strongly as I could upon my nose, and thus armed            
went on boldly with my work in spite of the enemy's arrows, many of         
which struck against the glasses of my spectacles, but without any          
other effect, further than a little to discompose them. I now fastened      
all the hooks, and taking the knot in my hand, began to pull; but           
not a ship would stir, for they were all too fast held by their             
anchors, so that the boldest part of my enterprise remained. I              
therefore let go the cord, and leaving the hooks fixed to the ships, I      
resolutely cut with my knife the cables that fastened the anchors,          
receiving above two hundred shots in my face and hands; then I took up      
the knotted end of the cables to which my hooks were tied, and with         
great ease drew fifty of the enemy's men-of-war after me.                   
  The Blefuscudians, who had not the least imagination of what I            
intended, were at first confounded with astonishment. They had seen me      
cut the cables, and thought my design was only to let the ships run         
adrift or fall foul on each other: but when they perceived the whole        
fleet moving in order, and saw me pulling at the end, they set up such      
a scream of grief and despair, that it is almost impossible to              
describe or conceive. When I had got out of danger, I stopped awhile        
to pick out the arrows that stuck in my hands and face, and rubbed          
on some of the same ointment that was given me at my first arrival, as      
I have formerly mentioned. I then took off my spectacles, and               
waiting about an hour, till the tide was a little fallen, I waded           
through the middle with my cargo, and arrived safe at the royal port        
of Lilliput                                                                 
  The Emperor and his whole court stood on the shore expecting the          
issue of this great adventure. They saw the ships move forward in a         
large half-moon, but could not discern me, who was up to my breast          
in water. When I advanced to the middle of the channel, they were           
yet in more pain, because I was under water to my neck. The Emperor         
concluded me to be drowned, and that the enemy's fleet was approaching      
in a hostile manner: but he was soon eased of his fears, for the            
channel growing shallower every step I made, I came in a short time         
within hearing, and holding up the end of the cable by which the fleet      
was fastened, I cried in a loud voice, Long live the most puissant          
Emperor of Lilliput! This great prince received me at my landing            
with all possible encomiums, and created me a Nardac upon the spot,         
which is the highest title of honor among them.                             
  His Majesty desired I would take some other opportunity of                
bringing all the rest of his enemy's ships into his ports. And so           
unmeasurable is the ambition of princes, that he seemed to think of         
nothing less than reducing the whole empire of Blefuscu into a              
province, and governing it by a Viceroy; of destroying the                  
Big-Endian exiles, and compelling that people to break the smaller end      
of their eggs, by which he would remain the sole monarch of the             
whole world. But I endeavored to divert him from this design, by            
many arguments drawn from the topics of policy as well as justice; and      
I plainly protested, that I would never be an instrument of bringing a      
free and brave people into slavery. And when the matter was debated in      
council, the wisest part of the ministry were of my opinion.                
  This open bold declaration of mine was so opposite to the schemes         
and politics of his Imperial Majesty, that he could never forgive           
it; he mentioned it in a very artful manner at council, where I was         
told that some of the wisest appeared, at least by their silence, to        
be of my opinion; but others, who were my secret enemies, could not         
forbear some expressions, which by a side-wind reflected on me. And         
from this time began an intrigue between his Majesty and a junto of         
ministers maliciously bent against me, which broke out in less than         
two months, and had like to have ended in my utter destruction. Of          
so little weight are the greatest services to princes, when put into        
the balance with a refusal to gratify their passions.                       
                                                     {P_1|CH_5 ^paragraph 5}
  About three weeks after this exploit, there arrived a solemn embassy      
from Blefuscu, with humble offers of a peace; which was soon concluded      
upon conditions very advantageous to our Emperor, wherewith I shall         
not trouble the reader. There were six ambassadors, with a train of         
about five hundred persons, and their entry was very magnificent,           
suitable to the grandeur of their master, and the importance of             
their business. When their treaty was finished, wherein I did them          
several good offices by the credit I now had, or at least appeared          
to have at court, their Excellencies, who were privately told how much      
I had been their friend, made me a visit in form. They began with many      
compliments upon my valor and generosity, invited me to that kingdom        
in the Emperor their master's name, and desired me to show them some        
proofs of my prodigious strength, of which they had heard so many           
wonders; wherein I readily obliged them, but shall not trouble the          
reader with the particulars.                                                
  When I had for some time entertained their Excellencies, to their         
infinite satisfaction and surprise, I desired they would do me the          
honor to present my most humble respects to the Emperor their               
master, the renown of whose had so justly filled the whole world            
with admiration, and whose royal person I resolved to attend before         
I returned to my own country: accordingly, the next time I had the          
honor to see our Emperor, I desired his general license to wait on the      
Blefuscudian monarch, which he was pleased to grant me, as I could          
plainly perceive, in a very cold manner; but could not guess the            
reason, till I had a whisper from a certain person, that Flimnap and        
Bolgolam had represented my intercourse with those ambassadors as a         
mark of disaffection, from which I am sure my heart was wholly free.        
And this was the first time I began to conceive some imperfect idea of      
courts and ministers.                                                       
  It is to be observed, that these ambassadors spoke to me by an            
interpreter, the languages of both empires differing as much from each      
other as any two in Europe, and each nation priding itself upon the         
antiquity, beauty, and energy of their own tongues, with an avowed          
contempt for that of their neighbor; yet our Emperor, standing upon         
the advantage he had got by the seizure of their fleet, obliged them        
to deliver their credentials, and make their speech in the Lilliputian      
tongue. And it must be confessed, that from the great intercourse of        
trade and commerce between both realms, from the continual reception        
of exiles, which is mutual among them, and from the custom in each          
empire to send their young nobility and richer gentry to the other, in      
order to polish themselves by seeing the world and understanding men        
and manners; there are few persons of distinction, or merchants, or         
seamen, who dwell in the maritime parts, but what can hold                  
conversation both tongues; as I found some weeks after, when I went to      
pay my respects to the Emperor of Blefuscu, which in the midst of           
great misfortunes, through the malice of my enemies, proved a very          
happy adventure to me, as I shall relate in its proper place.               
  The reader may remember, that when I signed those articles upon           
which I recovered my liberty, there were some which I disliked upon         
account of their being too servile, neither could anything but an           
extreme necessity have forced me to submit. But being now a Nardac, of      
the highest rank in that empire, such offices were looked upon as           
below my dignity, and the Emperor (to do him justice) never once            
mentioned them to me. However, it was not long before I had an              
opportunity of doing his Majesty, at least, as I then thought, a            
most signal service. I was alarmed at midnight with the cries of            
many hundred people at my door; by which being suddenly awaked, I           
was in some kind of terror. I heard the word burglum repeated               
incessantly: several of the Emperor's court, making their way               
through the crowd, entreated me to come immediately to the Palace,          
where her Imperial Majesty's apartment was on fire, by the                  
carelessness of a maid of honor, who fell asleep while she was reading      
a romance. I got up in an instant; and orders being given to clear the      
way before me, and it being likewise a moonshine night, I made a shift      
to get to the Palace without trampling on any of the people. I found        
they had already applied ladders to the walls of the apartment, and         
were well provided with buckets, but the water was at some distance.        
These buckets were about the size of a large thimble, and the poor          
people supplied me with them as fast as they could; but the flame           
was so violent that they did little good. I might easily have               
stifled it with my coat, which I unfortunately left behind me for           
haste, and came away only in my leathern jerkin. The case seemed            
wholly desperate and deplorable; and this magnificent palace would          
have infallibly been burned down to the ground, if, by a presence of        
mind, unusual to me, I had not suddenly thought of an expedient. I had      
the evening before drunk plentifully of a most delicious wine,              
called glimigrim (the Blefuscudians call it flunec, but ours is             
esteemed the better sort), which is very diuretic. By the luckiest          
chance in the world, I had not discharged myself of any part of it.         
The heat I had contracted by coming very near the flames, and by            
laboring to quench them, made the wine begin to operate my urine;           
which I voided in such a quantity, and applied so well to the proper        
places, that in three minutes the fire was wholly extinguished, and         
the rest of that noble pile, which had cost so many ages in                 
erecting, preserved from destruction.                                       
  It was now daylight, and I returned to my house without waiting to        
congratulate with the Emperor: because, although I had done a very          
eminent piece of service, yet I could not tell how his Majesty might        
resent the manner by which I had performed it: for, by the fundamental      
laws of the realm, it is capital in any person, of what quality             
soever, to make water within the precincts of the palace. But I was         
a little comforted by a message from his Majesty, that he would give        
orders to the Grand Justiciary for passing my pardon in form; which,        
however, I could not obtain. And I was privately assured, that the          
Empress, conceiving the greatest abhorrence of what I had done,             
removed to the most distant side of the court, firmly resolved that         
those buildings should never be repaired for her use: and, in the           
presence of her chief confidants could not forbear vowing revenge.          
                                                                            
P_1|CH_6                                                                    
  CHAPTER VI                                                                
-                                                                           
  Although I intend to leave the description of this empire to a            
particular treatise, yet in the meantime I am content to gratify the        
curious reader with some general ideas. As the common size of the           
natives is somewhat under six inches high, so there is an exact             
proportion in all other animals, as well as plants and trees: for           
instance, the tallest horses and oxen are between four and five inches      
in height, the sheep an inch and a half, more or less: their geese          
about the bigness of a sparrow, and so the several gradations               
downwards till you come to the smallest, which, to my sight, were           
almost invisible; but nature had adapted the eyes of the                    
Lilliputians to all objects proper for their view: they see with great      
exactness, but at no great distance. And to show the sharpness of           
their sight towards objects that are near, I have been much pleased         
with observing a cook pulling a lark, which was not so large as a           
common fly; and a young girl threading an invisible needle with             
invisible silk. Their tallest trees are about seven feet high; I            
mean some of those in the great royal park, the tops whereof I could        
but just reach with my fist clenched. The other vegetables are in           
the same proportion; but this I leave to the reader's imagination.          
  I shall say but little at present of their learning, which for            
many ages had flourished in all its branches among them; but their          
manner of writing is very peculiar, being neither from the left to the      
right, like the Europeans; nor from the right to the left, like the         
Arabians; nor from up to down, like the Chinese; nor from down to           
up, like the Cascagians; but aslant from one corner of the paper to         
the other, like ladies in England.                                          
  They bury their dead with their heads directly downwards, because         
they hold an opinion, that in eleven thousand moons they are all to         
rise again, in which period the earth (which they conceive to be flat)      
will turn upside down, and by this means they shall, at their               
resurrection, be found ready standing on their feet. The learned among      
them confess the absurdity of this doctrine, but the practice still         
continues, in compliance to the vulgar.                                     
  There are some laws and customs in this empire very peculiar; and if      
they were not so directly contrary to those of my own dear country,         
I should be tempted to say a little in their justification. It is only      
to be wished that they were as well executed. The first I shall             
mention relates to informers. All crimes against the state are              
punished here with the utmost severity; but if the person accused           
makes his innocence plainly to appear upon his trial, the accuser is        
immediately put to an ignominious death; and out of his goods or            
lands, the innocent person is quadruply recompensed for the loss of         
his time, for the danger he underwent, for the hardship of his              
imprisonment, and for all the charges he had been at in making his          
defense. Or, if that fund be deficient, it is largely supplied by           
the Crown. The Emperor does also confer on him some public mark of his      
favor, and proclamation is made of his innocence through the whole          
city.                                                                       
  They look upon fraud as a greater crime than theft, and therefore         
seldom fail to punish it with death; for they allege, that care and         
vigilance, with a very common understanding, may preserve a man's           
goods from thieves, but honesty has no fence against superior cunning;      
and since it is necessary that there should be a perpetual intercourse      
of buying and selling, and dealing upon credit, where fraud is              
permitted and connived at, or has no law to punish it, the honest           
dealer is always undone, and the knave gets the advantage. remember         
when I was once interceding with the King for a criminal who had            
wronged his master of a great sum of money, which he had received by        
order, and ran away with; and happening to tell his Majesty, by way of      
extenuation, that it was only a breach of trust; the Emperor thought        
it monstrous in me to offer, as a defense, the greatest aggravation of      
the crime: and truly I had little to say in return, farther than the        
common answer, that different nations had different customs; for, I         
confess, I was heartily ashamed.                                            
                                                     {P_1|CH_6 ^paragraph 5}
  Although we usually call reward and punishment the two hinges upon        
which all government turns, yet I could never observe this maxim to be      
put in practice by any nation except that of Lilliput. Whoever can          
there bring sufficient proof that he has strictly observed the laws of      
his country for seventy-three moons, has a claim to certain                 
privileges, according to his quality and condition of life, with a          
proportionable sum of money out of a fund appropriated for that use:        
he likewise acquires the title of Snilpall, or Legal, which is added        
to his name, but does not descend to his posterity. And these people        
thought it a prodigious defect of policy among us, when I told them         
that our laws were enforced only by penalties without any mention of        
reward. It is upon this account that the image of justice, in their         
courts of judicature, is formed with six eyes, two before, as many          
behind, and on each side one, to signify circumspection; with a bag of      
gold open in her right hand, and a sword sheathed in her left, to show      
she is more disposed to reward than to punish.                              
  In choosing persons for all employments, they have more regard to         
good morals than to great abilities; for, since government is               
necessary to mankind, they believe-that the common size of human            
understandings is fitted to some station or other, and that Providence      
never intended to make the management of public affairs a mystery,          
to be comprehended only by a few persons of sublime genius, of which        
there seldom are three born in an age: but they suppose truth,              
justice, temperance, and the like, to be in every man's power; the          
practice of which virtues, assisted by experience and a good                
intention, would qualify any man for the service of his country,            
except where a course of study is required. But they thought the            
want of moral virtues was so far from being supplied by superior            
endowments of the mind, that employments could never be put into            
such dangerous hands as those of persons so qualified; and at least,        
that the mistakes committed by ignorance in a virtuous disposition,         
would never be of such fatal consequence to the public weal, as the         
practices of a man whose inclinations led him to be corrupt, and had        
great abilities to manage, and multiply, and defend his corruptions.        
  In like manner, the disbelief of a Divine Providence renders a man        
incapable of holding any public station; for, since kings avow              
themselves to be the deputies of Providence, the Lilliputians think         
nothing can be more absurd than for a prince to employ such men as          
disown the authority under which he acts.                                   
  In relating these and the following laws, I would only be understood      
to mean the original institutions, and not the most scandalous              
corruptions into which these people are fallen by the degenerate            
nature of man. For as to that infamous practice of acquiring great          
employments by dancing on the ropes, or badges of favor and                 
distinction by leaping over sticks and creeping under them, the reader      
is to observe, that they were first introduced by the grandfather of        
the Emperor now reigning, and grew to the present height by the             
gradual increase of party and faction.                                      
   Ingratitude is among them a capital crime, as we read it to have         
been in some other countries; for they reason thus, that whoever makes      
ill returns to his benefactor, must needs be a common enemy to the          
rest of mankind, from whom he has received no obligation, and               
therefore such a man is not fit to live.                                    
                                                    {P_1|CH_6 ^paragraph 10}
  Their notions relating to the duties of parents and children              
differ extremely from ours. For since the conjunction of male and           
female is founded upon the great law of nature, in order to                 
propagate and continue the species, the Lilliputians will needs have        
it, that men and women are joined together like other animals, by           
the motives of concupiscence; and that their tenderness towards             
their young proceeds from the like natural principle: for which reason      
they will never allow, that a child is under any obligation to his          
father for begetting him, or his mother for bringing him into the           
world; which, considering the miseries of human life, was neither a         
benefit itself, nor intended so by his parents, whose thoughts in           
their love-encounters were otherwise employed. Upon these, and the          
like reasonings, their opinion is, that parents are the last of all         
others to be trusted with the education of their own children: and          
therefore they have in every town public nurseries, where all parents,      
except cottagers and laborers, are obliged to send their infants of         
both sexes to be reared and educated when they come to the age of           
twenty moons, at which time they are supposed to have some rudiments        
of docility. These schools are of several kinds, suited to different        
qualities, and to both sexes. They have certain professors well             
skilled in preparing children for such a condition of life as befits        
the rank of their parents, and their own capacities as well as              
inclinations. I shall say something of the male nurseries, and then of      
the female.                                                                 
  The nurseries for males of noble or eminent birth are provided            
with grave and learned professors, and their several deputies. The          
clothes and food of the children are plain and simple. They are bred        
up in the principles of honor, justice, courage, modesty, clemency,         
religion, and love of their country; they are always employed in            
some business, except in the times of eating and sleeping, which are        
very short, and two hours for diversions, consisting of bodily              
exercises. They are dressed by men till four years of age, and then         
are obliged to dress themselves, although their quality be ever so          
great; and the women attendants, who are aged proportionably to ours        
at fifty, perform only the most menial offices. They are never              
suffered to converse with servants, but go together in small or             
greater numbers to take their diversions, and always in the presence        
of a professor, or one of his deputies; whereby they avoid those early      
bad impressions of folly and vice to which our children are subject.        
Their parents are suffered to see them only twice a year; the visit is      
to last but an hour. They are allowed to kiss the child at meeting and      
parting; but a professor, who always stands by on those occasions,          
will not suffer them to whisper, or use any fondling expressions, or        
bring any presents of toys, sweetmeats, and the like.                       
  The pension from each family for the education and entertainment          
of a child, upon failure of due payment, is levied by the Emperor's         
officers.                                                                   
  The nurseries for children of ordinary gentlemen, merchants,              
traders, and handicrafts, are managed proportionably after the same         
manner; only those designed for trades are put out apprentices at           
eleven years old, whereas those of persons of quality continue in           
their exercises till fifteen, which answers to one and twenty with us:      
but the confinement is gradually lessened for the last three years.         
  In the female nurseries, the young girls of quality are educated          
much like the males, only they are dressed by orderly servants of           
their own sex; but always in the presence of a professor or deputy,         
till they come to dress themselves, which is at five years old. And if      
it be found that these nurses ever presume to entertain the girls with      
frightful or foolish stories, or the common follies practiced by            
chambermaids among us, they are publicly whipped thrice about the           
city, imprisoned for a year and banished for life to the most desolate      
part of the country. Thus the young ladies there are as much ashamed        
of being cowards and fools as the men, and despise all personal             
ornaments beyond decency and cleanliness: neither did I perceive any        
difference in their education, made by their difference of sex, only        
that the exercises of the females were not altogether so robust; and        
that some rules were given them relating to domestic life, and a            
smaller compass of learning was enjoined them: for their maxim is,          
that among people of quality a wife should be always a reasonable           
and agreeable companion, because she cannot always be young. When           
the girls are twelve years old, which among them is the marriageable        
age, their parents or guardians take them home, with great expressions      
of gratitude to the professors, and seldom without tears of the             
young lady and her companions.                                              
                                                    {P_1|CH_6 ^paragraph 15}
  In the nurseries of females of the meaner sort, the children are          
instructed in all kinds of works proper for their sex, and their            
several degrees: those intended for apprentices are dismissed at            
nine years old, the rest are to thirteen.                                   
  The meaner families who have children at these nurseries, are             
obliged, besides their annual pension, which is as low as possible, to      
return to the steward of the nursery a small monthly share of their         
gettings, to be a portion for the child; and therefore all parents are      
limited in their expenses by the law. For the Lilliputians think            
nothing can be more unjust, than for people, in subservience to             
their own appetites, to bring children into the world and leave the         
burden of supporting them on the public. As to persons of quality,          
they give security to appropriate a certain sum for each child,             
suitable to their condition; and these funds are always managed with        
good husbandry, and the most exact justice.                                 
  The cottagers and laborers keep their children at home, their             
business being only to till and cultivate the earth, and therefore          
their education is of little consequence to the public; but the old         
and discased among them are supported by hospitals: for begging is a        
trade unknown in this kingdom.                                              
  And here it may perhaps divert the curious reader to give some            
account of my domestics, and my manner of living in this country,           
during a residence of nine months and thirteen days. Having a head          
mechanically turned, and being likewise forced by necessity, I had          
made for myself a table and chair convenient enough, out of the             
largest trees in the royal park. Two hundred seamstresses were              
employed to make me shirts, and linen for my bed and table, all of the      
strongest and coarsest kind they could get; which, however, they            
were forced to quilt together in several folds, for the thickest was        
some degrees finer than lawn. Their linen is usually three inches           
wide, and three feet make a piece. The seamstresses took my measure as      
I lay on the ground, one standing at my neck, and another at my             
mid-leg, with a strong cord extended, that each held by the end, while      
the third measured the length of the cord with a rule an inch long.         
Then they measured my right thumb, and desired no more; for by a            
mathematical computation, that twice round the thumb is once round the      
wrist, and so on to the neck and the waist, and by the help of my           
old shirt, which I displayed on the ground before them for a                
pattern, they fitted me exactly. Three hundred tailors were employed        
in the same manner to make me clothes; but they had another                 
contrivance for taking my measure. I kneeled down, and they raised a        
ladder from the ground to my neck; upon this ladder one of them             
mounted, and let fall a plumb-line from my collar to the floor,             
which just answered the length of my coat; but my waist and arms I          
measured myself. When my clothes finished, which was done in my             
house (for the largest of theirs would not have been able to hold           
them) they looked like the patch-work made by the ladies in England,        
only that mine were all of a color.                                         
  I had three hundred cooks to dress my victuals, in little convenient      
huts built about my house, where they and their families lived, and         
prepared me two dishes apiece. I took up twenty waiters in my hand,         
and placed them on the table; a hundred more attended below on the          
ground, some with dishes of meat, and some with barrels of wine, and        
other liquors, slung on their shoulders; all which the waiters above        
drew up as I wanted, in a very ingenious manner, by certain cords,          
as we draw the bucket up a well in Europe. A dish of their meat was         
a good mouthful, and a barrel of their liquor a reasonable draught.         
Their mutton yields to ours, but their beef is excellent. I have had a      
sirloin so large, that I have been forced to make three bits of it;         
but this is rare. My servants were astonished to see me eat it bones        
and all, as in our country we do the leg of a lark. Their geese and         
turkeys I usually ate at a mouthful, and I must confess they far            
exceed ours. Of their smaller fowl I could take up twenty or thirty at      
the end of my knife.                                                        
                                                    {P_1|CH_6 ^paragraph 20}
  One day his Imperial Majesty, being informed of my way of living,         
desired that himself and his Royal Consort, with the young Princes          
of the blood of both sexes, might have the happiness (as he was             
pleased to call it) of dining with me. They came accordingly, and I         
placed them upon chairs of state on my table, just over against me,         
with their guards about them. Flimnap, the Lord High Treasurer,             
attended there likewise with his white staff; and I observed he             
often looked on me with a sour countenance, which I would not seem          
to regard, but ate more than usual, in honor to my dear country, as         
well as to fill the court with admiration. I have some private reasons      
to believe, that this visit from his Majesty gave Flimnap an                
opportunity of doing me ill offices to his master. That minister had        
always been my secret enemy, though he outwardly caressed me more than      
was usual to the moroseness of his nature. He represented to the            
Emperor the low condition of his treasury; that he was forced to            
take up money at great discount; that exchequer bills would not             
circulate under nine per cent below par; that in short I had cost           
his Majesty above a million and a half of sprugs (their greatest            
gold coin, about the bigness of a spangle) and upon the whole, that it      
would be advisable in the Emperor to take the first fair occasion of        
dismissing me.                                                              
  I am here obliged to vindicate the reputation of an excellent             
lady, who was an innocent sufferer upon my account. The Treasurer took      
a fancy to be jealous of his wife, from the malice of some evil             
tongues, who informed him that her Grace had taken a violent affection      
for my person; and the court-scandal ran for some time, that she            
once came privately to my lodging. This I solemnly declare to be a          
most infamous falsehood, without any grounds, farther than that her         
Grace was pleased to treat me with all innocent marks of freedom and        
friendship. I own she came often to my house, but always publicly, nor      
ever without three more in the coach, who were usually her sister           
and young daughter, and some particular acquaintance; but this was          
common to many other ladies of the court. And I still appeal to my          
servants round, whether they at any time saw a coach at my door             
without knowing what persons were in it. On those occasions, when a         
servant had given me notice, my custom was to go immediately to the         
door; and, after paying my respects, to take up the coach and two           
horses very carefully in my hands (for if there were six horses, the        
postillion always unharnessed four) and place them on a table, where I      
had fixed a moveable rim quite round, of five inches high, to               
prevent accidents. And I have often had four coaches and horses at          
once on my table full of company, while I sat in my chair leaning my        
face towards them; and when I was engaged with one set, the coachmen        
would gently drive the others round my table. I have passed many an         
afternoon very agreeably in these conversations. But I defy the             
Treasurer, or his two informers (I will name them, and let them make        
their best of it) Clustril and Drunlo, to prove that any person ever        
came to me incognito, except the secretary Reldresal, who was sent          
by express command of his Imperial Majesty, as I have before                
related. I should not have dwelt so long upon this particular, it           
had not been a point wherein the reputation of a great lady is so           
nearly concerned, to say nothing of my own; though I then had the           
honor to be a Nardac, which the Treasurer himself is not; for all           
the world knows he is only a Glumglum, a title inferior by one degree,      
as that of a Marquis is to a Duke in England, although I allow he           
preceded me in right of his post. These false informations, which I         
afterwards came to the knowledge of, by an accident not proper to           
mention, made Flimnap the Treasurer show his lady for some time an ill      
countenance, and me a worse; and although he were at last undeceived        
and reconciled to her, yet I lost all credit with him, and found my         
interest decline very fast with the Emperor himself, who was indeed         
too much governed by that favorite.                                         
                                                                            
P_1|CH_7                                                                    
  CHAPTER VII                                                               
-                                                                           
  Before I proceed to give an account of my leaving this kingdom, it        
may be proper to inform the reader of a private intrigue which had          
been for two months forming against me.                                     
  I had been hitherto all my life a stranger to courts, for which I         
was unqualified by the meanness of my condition. I had indeed heard         
and read enough of the dispositions of great princes and ministers;         
but never expected to have found such terrible effects of them in so        
remote a country, governed, as I thought, by very different maxims          
from those in Europe.                                                       
  When I was just preparing to pay my attendance on the Emperor of          
Blefuscu, a considerable person at court (to whom I had been very           
serviceable at a time when he lay under the highest displeasure of his      
Imperial Majesty) came to my house very privately at night in a             
close chair, and without sending his name, desired admittance. The          
chairmen were dismissed; I put the chair, with his Lordship in it,          
into my coat-pocket: and giving orders to a trusty servant to say I         
was indisposed and gone to sleep, I fastened the door of my house,          
placed the chair on the table, according to my usual custom, and sat        
down by it. After the common salutations were over, observing his           
Lordship's countenance full of concern, and enquiring into the reason,      
he desired I would hear him with patience in a matter that highly           
concerned my honor and my life. His speech was to the following             
effect, for I took notes of it as soon as he left me.                       
  You are to know, said he, that several Committees of Council have         
been lately called in the most private manner on your account; and          
it is but two days since his Majesty came to a full resolution.             
  You are very sensible that Skyresh Bolgolam (Galbet, or High              
Admiral) has been your mortal enemy almost ever since your arrival.         
His original reasons I know not, but his hatred is much increased           
since your great success against Blefuscu, by which his glory as            
Admiral is obscured. This Lord, in conjunction with Flimnap the High        
Treasurer, whose enmity against you is notorious on account of his          
lady, Limtoc the General, Lalcon the Chamberlain, and Balmuff the           
Grand Justiciary, have prepared articles of impeachment against you,        
for treason, and other capital crimes.                                      
                                                     {P_1|CH_7 ^paragraph 5}
  This preface made me so impatient, being conscious of my own              
merits and innocence, that I was going to interrupt; when he entreated      
me to be silent, and thus proceeded.                                        
  Out of gratitude for the favors you have done me, I procured              
information of the whole proceedings, and a copy of the articles,           
wherein I venture my head for your service.                                 
-                                                                           
          Articles of Impeachment against Quinbus Flestrin                  
                        (the Man-Mountain)                                  
                                                    {P_1|CH_7 ^paragraph 10}
-                                                                           
                            ARTICLE I                                       
  Whereas, by a statute made in the reign of his Imperial Majesty           
Calin Deffar Plune, it is enacted, that whoever shall make water            
within the precincts of the royal palace, should be liable to the           
pains and penalties of high treason; notwithstanding, the said Quinbus      
Flestrin, in open breach of the said law, under color of extinguishing      
the fire kindled in the apartment of his Majesty's most dear                
Imperial Consort, did maliciously, traitorously, and devilishly, by         
discharge of his urine, put out the said fire kindled in the said           
apartment, lying and being within the precincts of the said royal           
palace, against the statute in that case provided, etc., against the        
duty, etc.                                                                  
-                                                                           
                            ARTICLE II.                                     
                                                    {P_1|CH_7 ^paragraph 15}
  That the said Quinbus Flestrin having brought the imperial fleet          
of Blefuscu into the royal port, and being afterwards commanded by his      
Imperial Majesty to seize all the other ships of the said empire of         
Blefuscu, and reduce that empire to a province, to be governed by a         
Viceroy from hence, and to destroy and put to death not only all the        
Big-Endian exiles, but likewise all the people of that empire, who          
would not immediately forsake the Big-Endian heresy: He, the said           
Flestrin, like a false traitor against his most Auspicious, Serene,         
Imperial Majesty, did petition to be excused from the said service          
upon pretense of unwillingness to force the consciences, or destroy         
the liberties and lives of an innocent people.                              
-                                                                           
                            ARTICLE III.                                    
  That, whereas certain ambassadors from the court of Blefuscu, to sue      
for peace in his Majesty's court: He, the said Flestrin, did, like a        
false traitor, aid, abet, comfort, and divert the said ambassadors,         
although he knew them to be servants to a Prince who was lately an          
open enemy to his Imperial Majesty, and in open war against his said        
Majesty.                                                                    
-                                                                           
                                                    {P_1|CH_7 ^paragraph 20}
                            ARTICLE IV.                                     
  That the said Quinbus Flestrin, contrary to the duty of a faithful        
subject, is now preparing to make a voyage to the court and empire          
of Blefuscu, for which he had received only verbal license from his         
Imperial Majesty; and under color of the said license, doth falsely         
and traitorously intend to take the said voyage, and hereby to aid,         
comfort, and abet the Emperor of Blefuscu, so late an enemy, and in         
open war with his Imperial Majesty aforesaid.                               
-                                                                           
  There are some other articles, but these are the most important,          
of which I have read you an abstract.                                       
  In the several debates upon this impeachment, it must be confessed        
that his Majesty gave many marks of his great lenity, often urging the      
services you had done him, and endeavoring to extenuate your crimes.        
The Treasurer and Admiral insisted that you should be put to the            
most painful and ignominious death, by setting fire on your house at        
night, and the General was to attend with twenty thousand men armed         
with poisoned arrows to shoot you on the face and hands. Some of            
your servants were to have private orders to strew a poisonous juice        
on your shirts, which would soon make you tear your own flesh, and die      
in the utmost torture. The General came into the same opinion, so that      
for a long time there was a majority against you. But his Majesty           
resolving, if possible, to spare your life, at last brought off the         
Chamberlain.                                                                
                                                    {P_1|CH_7 ^paragraph 25}
  Upon this incident, Reldresal, principal Secretary for Private            
Affairs, who always approved himself your true friend, was commanded        
by the Emperor to deliver his opinion, which he accordingly did; and        
therein justified the good thoughts you have of him. He allowed your        
crimes to be great, but that still there was room for mercy, the            
most commendable virtue in a prince, and for which his Majesty was          
so justly celebrated. He said, the friendship between you and him           
was so well known to the world, that perhaps the most honorable             
board might think him partial: however, in obedience to the command he      
had received, he would freely offer his sentiments. That if his             
Majesty, in consideration of your services, and pursuant to his own         
merciful disposition, would please to spare your life, and only give        
order to put out both your eyes, he humbly conceived that by this           
expedient justice might in some measure be satisfied, and all the           
world would applaud the lenity of the Emperor, as well as the fair and      
generous proceedings of those who have the honor to be his                  
counsellors. That the loss of your eyes would be no impediment to your      
bodily strength, by which you might still be useful to his Majesty.         
That blindness is an addition to courage, by concealing dangers from        
us; that the fear you had for your eyes was the greatest difficulty in      
bringing over the enemy's fleet, and it would be sufficient for you to      
see by the eyes of the ministers, since the greatest princes do no          
more.                                                                       
  This proposal was received with the utmost disapprobation by the          
whole board. Bolgolam, the Admiral, could not preserve his temper, but      
rising up in fury said he wondered how the Secretary dared presume          
to give his opinion for preserving the life of a traitor: that the          
services you had performed, were, by all true reasons of state, the         
great aggravation of your crimes; that you, who were able to                
extinguish the fire, by discharge of urine in her Majesty's                 
apartment (which he mentioned with horror), might at another time,          
raise an inundation by the same means, to drown the whole palace;           
and the same strength which enabled you to bring over the enemy's           
fleet, might serve, upon the first discontent, to carry it back:            
that he had good reasons to think you were a Big-Endian in your heart;      
and as treason begins in the heart, before it appears in overt acts,        
so he accused you as a traitor on that account, and therefore insisted      
you should be put to death.                                                 
  The Treasurer was of the same opinion; he showed to what straits his      
Majesty's revenue was reduced by the charge of maintaining you,             
which would soon grow insupportable: that the Secretary's expedient of      
putting out your eyes was so far from being a remedy against this           
evil, it would probably increase it, as it is manifest from the common      
practice of blinding some kind of fowl, after which they fed the            
faster, and grew sooner fat: that his sacred Majesty and the                
Council, who are your judges, were in their own consciences fully           
convinced of your guilt, which was a sufficient argument to condemn         
you to death, without the formal proofs required by the strict              
letter of the law.                                                          
  But his Imperial Majesty, fully determined against capital                
punishment, was graciously pleased to say, that since the Council           
thought the loss of your eyes too easy a censure, some other may be         
inflicted hereafter. And your friend the Secretary humbly desiring          
to be heard again, in answer to what the Treasurer had objected             
concerning the great charge his Majesty was at in maintaining you,          
said that his Excellency, who had the sole disposal of the Emperor's        
revenue, might easily provide against that evil, by gradually               
lessening your establishment; by which, for want of sufficient food,        
you would grow weak and faint, and lose your appetite, and                  
consequently decay and consume in a few months; neither would the           
stench of your carcass be then so dangerous, when it should become          
more than half diminished; and immediately upon your death, five or         
six thousand of his Majesty's subjects might, in two or three days,         
cut your flesh from your bones, take it away by cartloads, and bury it      
in distant parts to prevent infection, leaving the skeleton as a            
monument of admiration to posterity.                                        
  Thus by the great friendship of the Secretary, the whole affair           
was compromised. It was strictly enjoined, that the project of              
starving you by degrees should be kept a secret, but the sentence of        
putting out your eyes was entered on the books; none dissenting except      
Bolgolam the Admiral, who, being a creature of the Empress, was             
perpetually instigated by her Majesty to insist upon your death, she        
having borne perpetual malice against you, on account of that infamous      
and illegal method you took to extinguish the fire in her apartment.        
                                                    {P_1|CH_7 ^paragraph 30}
  In three days your friend the Secretary will be directed to come          
to your house, and read before you the articles of impeachment; and         
then to signify the great lenity and favor of his Majesty and Council,      
whereby you are only condemned to the loss of your eyes, which his          
Majesty does not question you will gratefully and humbly submit to;         
and twenty of his Majesty's surgeons will attend, in order to see           
the operation well performed, by discharging very sharp-pointed arrows      
into the balls of your eyes, as you lie on the ground.                      
  I leave to your prudence what measures you will take; and to avoid        
suspicion, I must immediately return in as private a manner as I came.      
  His Lordship did so, and I remained alone, under many doubts and          
perplexities of mind.                                                       
  It was a custom introduced by this prince and his ministry (very          
different, as I have been assured, from the practices of former times)      
that after the court had decreed any cruel execution, either to             
gratify the monarch's resentment, or the malice of a favorite, the          
Emperor always made a speech to his whole Council, expressing his           
great lenity and tenderness, as qualities known and confessed by all        
the world. This speech was immediately published through the                
kingdom; nor did anything terrify the people so much as those               
encomiums on his Majesty's mercy; because it was observed, that the         
more these praises were enlarged and insisted on, the more inhuman was      
the punishment, and the sufferer more innocent. And as to myself, I         
must confess, having never been designed for a courtier either by my        
birth or education, I was so ill a judge of things, that I could not        
discover the lenity and favor of this sentence, but conceived it            
(perhaps erroneously) rather to be rigorous than gentle. I sometimes        
thought of standing my trial, for although I could not deny the             
facts alleged in the several articles, yet I hoped they would admit of      
some extenuations. But having in my life perused many state trials,         
which I ever observed to terminate as the judges thought fit to             
direct, I dared not rely on so dangerous a decision, in so critical         
a juncture, and against such powerful enemies. Once I was strongly          
bent upon resistance, for while I had liberty, the whole strength of        
that empire could hardly subdue me, and I might easily with stones          
pelt the metropolis to pieces; but I soon rejected that project with        
horror, by remembering the oath I had made to the Emperor, the              
favors I received from him, and the high title of Nardac he                 
conferred upon me. Neither had I so soon learned the gratitude of           
courtiers, to persuade myself that his Majesty's present severities         
quitted me of all past obligations.                                         
  At last I fixed upon a resolution, for which it is probable I may         
incur some censure, and not unjustly; for I confess I owe the               
preserving of my eyes, and consequently my liberty, to my own great         
rashness and want of experience: because if I had then known the            
nature of princes and ministers, which I have since observed in many        
other courts, and their methods of treating criminals less obnoxious        
than myself, I should with great alacrity and readiness have submitted      
to so easy a punishment. But hurried on by the precipitancy of              
youth, and having his Imperial Majesty's license to pay my                  
attendance upon the Emperor of Blefuscu, I took this opportunity,           
before the three days were elapsed, to send a letter to my friend           
the Secretary, signifying my resolution of setting out that morning         
Blefuscu pursuant to the leave I had got; and without waiting for an        
answer, I went to that side of the island where our fleet lay. I            
seized a large man of war, tied a cable to the prow, and, lifting up        
the anchors, I stripped myself, put my clothes (together with my            
coverlet, which I brought under my arm) into the vessel, and drawing        
it after me between wading and swimming, arrived at the royal port          
of Blefuscu, where the people had long expected me; they lent me two        
guides to direct me to the capital city, which is of the same name.         
I held them in my hands till I came within two hundred yards of the         
gate, and desired them to signify my arrival to one of the                  
secretaries, and let him know, I there waited his Majesty's                 
commands. I had an answer in about an hour, that his Majesty, attended      
by the Royal Family, and great officers of the court, was coming out        
to receive me. I advanced a hundred yards. The Emperor and his train        
alighted from their horses, the Empress and ladies from their coaches,      
and I did not perceive they were in any fright or concern. I lay on         
the ground to kiss his Majesty's and the Empress's hand. I told his         
Majesty that I had come according to my promise, and with the               
license of the Emperor, my master, to have the honor of seeing so           
mighty a monarch, and to offer him any service in my power, consistent      
with my duty to my own prince; not mentioning a word of my disgrace,        
because I had hitherto no regular information of it, and might suppose      
myself wholly ignorant of any such design; neither could I                  
reasonably conceive that the Emperor would discover the secret while I      
was out of his power: wherein, however, it soon appeared I was              
deceived.                                                                   
                                                    {P_1|CH_7 ^paragraph 35}
  I shall not trouble the reader with the particular account of my          
reception at this court, which was suitable to the generosity of so         
great a prince; nor of the difficulties I was in for want of a house        
and bed, being forced to lie on the ground, wrapped up in my coverlet.      
                                                                            
P_1|CH_8                                                                    
  CHAPTER VIII                                                              
-                                                                           
  Three days after my arrival, walking out of curiosity to the              
northeast coast of the island, I observed, about half a league off, in      
the sea, something that looked like a boat overturned. I pulled off my      
shoes and stockings, and wading two or three hundred yards, I found         
the object to approach nearer by force of the tide; and then plainly        
saw it to be a real boat, which I supposed might, by some tempest,          
have been driven from a ship; whereupon I returned immediately towards      
the city, and desired his Imperial Majesty to lend me twenty of the         
tallest vessels he had left after the loss of his fleet, and three          
thousand seamen under the command of his Vice-Admiral. This fleet           
sailed round, while I went back the shortest way to the coast where         
I first discovered the boat; I found the tide had driven it still           
nearer. The seamen were all provided with cordage, which I had              
beforehand twisted to a sufficient strength. When the ships came up, I      
stripped myself, and waded till I came within a hundred yards of the        
boat, after which I was forced to swim till I got up to it. The seamen      
threw me the end of the cord, which I fastened to a hole in the             
forepart of the boat, and the other end to a man of war; but I found        
all my labor to little purpose; for being out of my depth, I was not        
able to work. In this necessity, I was forced to swim behind, and push      
the boat forwards as often as I could, with one of my hands; and the        
tide favoring me, I advanced so far, that I could just hold up my chin      
and feel the ground. I rested two or three minutes, and then gave           
the boat another shove, and so on till the sea was no higher than my        
arm-pits; and now the most laborious part being over, I took out my         
other cables, which were stowed in one of the ships, and fastening          
them first to the boat, and then to nine of the vessels which attended      
me; the wind being favorable, the seamen towed, and I shoved till we        
arrived within forty yards of the shore; and waiting till the tide was      
out, I got dry to the boat, and by the assistance of two thousand men,      
with ropes and engines, I made a shift to turn it on its bottom, and        
found it was but little damaged.                                            
  I shall not trouble the reader with the difficulties I was under          
by the help of certain paddles, which cost me ten days making, to           
get my boat to the royal port of Blefuscu, where a mighty concourse of      
people appeared upon my arrival, full of wonder at the sight of so          
prodigious a vessel. I told the Emperor that my good fortune had            
thrown this boat in my way, to carry me to some place from whence I         
might return into my native country, and begged his Majesty's orders        
for getting materials to fit it up, together with his license to            
depart; which, after some kind expostulations, he was pleased to            
grant.                                                                      
  I did very much wonder, in all this time, not to have heard of any        
express relating to me from our Emperor to the court of Blefuscu.           
But I was afterwards given privately to understand, that his                
Imperial Majesty, never imagining I had the least notice of his             
designs, believed I was only gone to Blefuscu in performance of my          
promise, according to the license he had given me, which was well           
known at our court, and would return in a few days when that                
ceremony was ended. But he was at last in pain at my long absence; and      
after consulting with the Treasurer, and the rest of that cabal, a          
person of quality was dispatched with the copy of the articles against      
me. This envoy had instructions to represent to the monarch of              
Blefuscu the great lenity of his master, who was content to punish          
me no farther than with the loss of my eyes; that I had fled from           
justice, and if I did not return in two hours, I should be deprived of      
my title of Nardac, and declared a traitor. The envoy further added,        
that in order to maintain the peace and amity between both empires,         
his master expected, that his brother of Blefuscu would give orders to      
have me sent back to Lilliput, bound hand and foot, to be punished          
as a traitor.                                                               
  The Emperor of Blefuscu having taken three days to consult, returned      
an answer consisting of many civilities and excuses. He said, that          
as for sending me bound, his brother knew it was impossible; that           
although I had deprived him of his fleet, yet he owed great                 
obligations to me for many good offices I had done him in making the        
peace. That however both their Majesties would soon be made easy;           
for I had found a prodigious vessel on the shore, able to carry me          
on the sea, which he had given order to fit up with my own                  
assistance and direction; and he hoped in a few weeks both empires          
would be freed from so insupportable an incumbrance.                        
  With this answer the envoy returned to Lilliput, and the monarch          
of Blefuscu related to me all that had past, offering me at the same        
time (but under the strictest confidence) his gracious protection,          
if I would continue in his service; wherein although I believed him         
sincere, yet I resolved never more to put any confidence in princes or      
ministers, where I could possibly avoid it; and therefore, with all         
due acknowledgements for his favorable intentions, I humbly begged          
to be excused. I told him that since fortune, whether good or evil,         
had thrown a vessel in my way, I was resolved to venture myself in the      
ocean, rather than be an occasion of difference between two such            
mighty monarchs. Neither did I find the Emperor at all displeased; and      
I discovered by a certain accident, that he was very glad of my             
resolution, and so were most of his ministers.                              
                                                     {P_1|CH_8 ^paragraph 5}
  These considerations moved me to hasten my departure somewhat sooner      
than I intended; to which the court, impatient to have me gone, very        
readily contributed. Five hundred workmen were employed to make two         
sails to my boat, according to my directions, by quilting thirteen          
fold of their strongest linen together. I was at the pains of making        
ropes and cables, by twisting ten, twenty or thirty of the thickest         
and strongest of theirs. A great stone that I happened to find,             
after a long search, by the sea-shore, served me for an anchor. I           
had the tallow of three hundred cows for greasing my boat, and other        
uses. I was at incredible pains in cutting down some of the largest         
timber-trees for oars and masts, wherein I was, however, much assisted      
by his Majesty's ship carpenters, who helped me in smoothing them,          
after I had done the rough work.                                            
  In about a month, when all was prepared, I sent to receive his            
Majesty's commands, and to take my leave. The Emperor and Royal Family      
came out of the palace; I lay down on my face to kiss his hand,             
which he very graciously gave me: so did the Empress and young Princes      
of the blood. His Majesty presented me with fifty purses of two             
hundred sprugs apiece, together with his picture at full length, which      
I put immediately into one of my gloves, to keep it from being hurt.        
The ceremonies at my departure were too many to trouble the reader          
with at this time.                                                          
  I stored the boat with the carcases of a hundred oxen, and three          
hundred sheep, with bread and drink proportionable, and as much meat        
ready dressed as four hundred cooks could provide. I took with me           
six cows and two bulls alive, with as many ewes and rams, intending to      
carry them into my own country, and propagate the breed. And to feed        
them on board, I had a good bundle of hay, and a bag of corn. I             
would gladly have taken a dozen of the natives, but this was a thing        
the Emperor would by no means permit; and besides a diligent search         
into my pockets, his Majesty engaged my honor not to carry away any of      
his subjects, although with their own consent and desire.                   
  Having thus prepared all things as well as I was able, I set sail on      
the twenty-fourth day of September, 1701, at six in the morning; and        
when I had gone about four leagues to the northward, the wind being at      
southeast, at six in the evening I descried a small island about            
half a league to the northwest. I advanced forward, and cast anchor on      
the leeside of the island, which seemed to be uninhabited. I then took      
some refreshment, and went to my rest. I slept well, and I                  
conjecture at least six hours, for I found the day broke in two             
hours after I awaked. It was a clear night. I ate my breakfast              
before the sun was up; and heaving anchor, the wind being favorable, I      
steered the same course that I had done the day before, wherein I           
was directed by my pocket compass. My intention was to reach, if            
possible, one of those islands, which I had reason to believe lay to        
the northeast of Van Diemen's Land. I discovered nothing all that day;      
but upon the next, about three in the afternoon, when I had by my           
computation made twenty-four leagues from Blefuscu, I descried a            
sail steering to the southeast; my course was due east. I hailed            
her, but could get no answer; yet I found I gained upon her, for the        
wind slackened. I made all the sail I could, and in half an hour she        
spied me, then hung out her ancient, and discharged a gun. It is not        
easy to express the joy I was in upon the unexpected hope of once more      
seeing my beloved country, and the dear pledges I had left in it.           
The ship slackened her sails, and I came up with her between five           
and six in the evening, September 26; but my heart leaped within me to      
see her English colors. I put my cows and sheep into my coat                
pockets, and got on board with all my little cargo of provisions.           
The vessel was an English merchantman, returning from Japan by the          
North and South Seas; the Captain, Mr. John Biddle of Deptford, a very      
civil man, and an excellent sailor. We were now in the latitude of          
30 degrees south; there were about fifty men in the ship; and here I        
met an old comrade of mine, one Peter Williams, who gave me a good          
character to the Captain. This gentleman treated me with kindness, and      
desired I would let know what place I came from last, and whither I         
was bound; which I did in few words, but he thought I was raving,           
and that the dangers I underwent had disturbed my head; whereupon I         
took my black cattle and sheep out of my pocket, which, after great         
astonishment, clearly convinced him of my veracity. I then showed           
him the gold given me by the Emperor of Blefuscu, together with his         
Majesty's picture at full length, and some other rarities of that           
country. I gave him two purses of two hundred sprugs each, and              
promised, when we arrived in England, to make him a present of a cow        
and a sheep big with young.                                                 
  I shall not trouble the reader with a particular account of this          
voyage, which was very prosperous for the most part. We arrived in the      
Downs on the 13th of April, 1702. I had only one misfortune, that           
the rats on board carried away one of my sheep; I found her bones in a      
hole, picked clean from the flesh. The rest of my cattle I got safe on      
shore, and set them grazing in a bowling-green at Greenwich, where the      
fineness of the grass made them feed very heartily, though I had            
always feared the contrary: neither could I possibly have preserved         
them in so long a voyage, if the Captain had not allowed me some of         
his best biscuit, which, rubbed to powder, and mingled with water, was      
their constant food. The short time I continued in England, I made          
considerable profit by showing my cattle to many persons of quality,        
and others: and before I began my second voyage, I sold them for six        
hundred pounds. Since my last return, I find the breed is considerably      
increased, especially the sheep; which I hope will prove much to the        
advantage of the woollen manufacture, by the fineness of the fleeces.       
                                                    {P_1|CH_8 ^paragraph 10}
  I stayed but two months with my wife and family; for my insatiable        
desire of seeing foreign countries would suffer me to continue no           
longer. I left fifteen hundred pounds with my wife, and fixed her in a      
good house at Redriff. My remaining stock I carried with me, part in        
money, and part in goods, in hopes to improve my fortunes. My eldest        
uncle John had left me an estate in land, near Epping, of about thirty      
pounds a year; and I had a long lease of the Black Bull in Fetter           
Lane, which yielded me as much more; so that I was not in any danger        
of leaving my family upon the parish. My son Johnny, named so after         
his uncle, was at the Grammar School, and a towardly child. My              
daughter Betty (who is now well married, and has children) was then at      
her needlework. I took leave of my wife, and boy and girl, with             
tears on both sides, and went on board the Adventure, a merchantship        
of three hundred tons, bound for Surat, Captain John Nicholas of            
Liverpool, Commander. But my account of this voyage must be referred        
to the second part of my Travels.                                           
-                                                                           
                       THE END OF THE FIRST PART                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                    PART II                                 
                                                                            
                            A VOYAGE TO BROBDINGNAG                         
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                  (SEE PLATE 2)                             
                                                                            
P_2|CH_1                                                                    
  CHAPTER I                                                                 
-                                                                           
  Having been condemned by nature and fortune to an active and              
restless life, in two months after my return I again left my native         
country, and took shipping in the Downs on the 20th day of June, 1702,      
in the Adventure, Captain John Nicholas, a Cornishman, Commander,           
bound for Surat. We had a very prosperous gale till we arrived at           
the Cape of Good Hope, where we landed for fresh water, but                 
discovering a leak we unshipped our goods and wintered there; for           
the Captain falling sick of an ague, we could not leave the Cape            
till the end of March. We then set sail, and had a good voyage till we      
passed the Straits of Madagascar; but having got northward of that          
island, and to about five degrees south latitude, the winds, which          
in those seas are observed to blow a constant equal gale between the        
north and west from the beginning of December to the beginning of May,      
on the 19th of April began to blow with much greater violence, and          
more westerly than usual, continuing so for twenty days together,           
during which time we were driven a little to the east of the Molucca        
Islands, and about three degrees northward of the Line, as our Captain      
found by an observation he took the 2nd of May, at which time the wind      
ceased, and it was a perfect calm, whereat I was not a little               
rejoiced. But he, being a man well experienced in the navigation of         
those seas, bid us all prepare against a storm, which accordingly           
happened the day following: for a southern wind, called the southern        
monsoon, began to set in.                                                   
  Finding it was likely to overblow, we took in our spritsail, and          
stood by to hand the foresail; but making foul weather, we looked           
the guns were all fast, and handed the mizzen. The ship lay very broad      
off, so we thought it better spooning before the sea, than trying or        
hulling. We reefed the foresail and set him, we hauled aft the              
foresheet; the helm was hard aweather. The ship wore bravely. We            
belayed the fore-down-haul; but the sail was split, and we hauled down      
the yard, and got the sail into the ship, and unbound all the things        
clear of it. It was a very fierce storm; the sea broke strange and          
dangerous. We hauled off upon the lanyard of the whipstaff, and helped      
the man at helm. We would not get down our topmast, but let all stand,      
because she scudded before the sea very well, and we knew that the          
topmast being aloft, the ship was the wholesomer, and made better           
way through the sea, seeing we had sea room. When the storm was             
over, we set foresail and mainsail, and brought the ship to: then we        
set the mizzen, main-topsail, and the fore-topsail. Our course was          
east northeast, the wind was at southwest. We got the starboard             
tacks aboard; we cast off our weather-braces and lifts; we set in           
the leebraces, and hauled forward by the weatherbowlings, and hauled        
them tight, and belayed them, and hauled over the mizzen tack to            
windward, and kept her full and by as near as she would lie.                
  During this storm, which was followed by a strong wind west               
southwest, we were carried by my computation about five hundred             
leagues to the east, so that the oldest sailor on board could not tell      
in what part of the world we were. Our provisions held out well, our        
ship was staunch, and our crew all in good health; but we lay in the        
utmost distress for water. We thought it best to hold on the same           
course, rather than turn more northerly, which might have brought us        
to the northwest parts of Great Tartary, and into the frozen sea.           
  On the 16th day of June, 1703, a boy on the topmost discovered land.      
On the 17th we came in full view of a great island or continent (for        
we knew not which) on the south side whereof was a small neck of            
land jutting out into the sea, and a creek too shallow to hold a            
ship of above one hundred tons. We cast anchor within a league of this      
creek, and our Captain sent a dozen of his men well armed in the            
longboat, with vessels for water if any could be found. I desired           
his leave to go with them, that I might see the country, and make what      
discoveries I could. When we came to land we saw no river or spring,        
nor any sign of inhabitants. Our men therefore wandered on the shore        
to find out some fresh water near the sea, and I walked alone about         
a mile on the other side, where I observed the country all barren           
and rocky. I now began to be weary, and seeing nothing to entertain my      
curiosity, I returned gently down towards the creek; and the sea being      
full in my view, I saw our men already got into the boat, and rowing        
for life to the ship. I was going to halloo after them, although it         
had been to little purpose, when I observed a huge creature walking         
after them in the sea, as fast as he could: he waded not much deeper        
than his knees, and took prodigious strides: but our men had the start      
of him half a league, and the sea thereabouts being full of                 
sharp-pointed rocks, the monster was not able to overtake the boat.         
This I was afterwards told, for I dared not stay to see the issue of        
that adventure; but ran as fast as I could the way I first went, and        
then climbed up a steep hill, which gave me some prospect of the            
country. I found it fully cultivated; but that which first surprised        
me was the length of the grass, which in those grounds that seemed          
to be kept for hay, was about twenty feet high.                             
  I fell into a high road, for so I took it to be, though it served to      
the inhabitants only as a footpath through a field of barley. Here I        
walked on for some time, but could see little on either side, it being      
now near harvest, and the corn rising at least forty feet. I was an         
hour walking to the end of this field, which was fenced in with a           
hedge of at least one hundred and twenty feet high, and the trees so        
lofty that I could make no computation of their altitude. There was         
a stile to pass from this field into the next. It had four steps,           
and a stone to cross over when you came to the uppermost. It was            
impossible for me to climb this stile, because every step was six feet      
high, and the upper stone above twenty. I was endeavoring to find some      
gap in the hedge, when I discovered one of the inhabitants in the next      
field, advancing towards the stile, of the same size with him whom I        
saw in the sea pursuing our boat. He appeared as tall as an ordinary        
spire steeple, and took about ten yards at every stride, as near as         
I could guess. I was struck with the utmost fear and astonishment, and      
ran to hide myself in the corn, from whence I saw him at the top of         
the stile, looking back into the next field on the right hand, and          
heard him call in a voice many degrees louder than a speaking trumpet:      
but the noise was so high in the air, that at first I certainly             
thought it was thunder. Whereupon seven monsters like himself came          
towards him with reaping hooks in their hands, each hook about the          
size of six scythes. These people were not so well clad as the              
first, whose servants or laborers they seemed to be. For upon some          
words he spoke, they went to reap the corn in the field where I lay. I      
kept from them at as great a distance as I could, but was forced to         
move with extreme difficulty, for the stalks of the corn were               
sometimes not above a foot distant, so that I could hardly squeeze          
my body between them. However, I made a shift to go forward till I          
came to a part of the field where the corn had been laid by the rain        
and wind. Here it was impossible for me to advance a step; for the          
stalks were so interwoven that I could not creep through, and the           
beards of the fallen ears so strong and pointed that they pierced           
through my clothes into my flesh. At the same time I heard the reapers      
not above a hundred yards behind me. Being quite dispirited with toil,      
and wholly overcome by grief and despair, I lay down between two            
ridges, and heartily wished I might there end my days. I bemoaned my        
desolate widow, and fatherless children. I lamented my own folly and        
willfulness in attempting a second voyage against the advice of all my      
friends and relations. In this terrible agitation of mind I could           
not forbear thinking of Lilliput, whose inhabitants looked upon me          
as the greatest prodigy that ever appeared in the world; where I was        
able to draw an Imperial Fleet in my hand, and perform those other          
actions which will be recorded forever in the chronicles of that            
empire, while posterity shall hardly believe them, although attested        
by millions. I reflected what a mortification it must prove to me to        
appear as inconsiderable in this nation as one single Lilliputian           
would be among us. But this I conceived was to be the least of my           
misfortunes: for as human creatures are observed to be more savage and      
cruel in proportion to their bulk, what could I expect but to be a          
morsel in the mouth of the first among these enormous barbarians            
that should happen to seize me? Undoubtedly philosophers are in the         
right when they tell us, that nothing is great or little otherwise          
than by comparison. It might have pleased fortune to let the                
Lilliputians find some nation, where the people were as diminutive          
with respect to them, as they were to me. And who knows but that            
even this prodigious race of mortals might be equally overmatched in        
some distant part of the world, whereof we have yet no discovery?           
                                                     {P_2|CH_1 ^paragraph 5}
  Scared and confounded as I was, I could not forbear going on with         
these reflections, when one of the reapers approaching within ten           
yards of the ridge where I lay, made me apprehend that with the next        
step I should be squashed to death under his foot, or cut in two            
with his reaping hook. And therefore when he was again about to             
move, I screamed as loud as fear could make me. Whereupon the huge          
creature trod short, and looking round about under him for some             
time, at last espied me as I lay on the ground. He considered a             
while with the caution of one who endeavors to lay hold on a small          
dangerous animal in such a manner that it shall not be able either          
to scratch or to bite him, as I myself have sometimes done with a           
weasel in England. At length he ventured to take me up behind by the        
middle between his forefinger and thumb, and brought me within three        
yards of his eyes, that he might behold my shape more perfectly. I          
guessed his meaning, and my good fortune gave me so much presence of        
mind, that I resolved not to struggle in the least as he held me in         
the air about sixty feet from the ground, although he grievously            
pinched my sides, for fear I should slip through his fingers. All I         
ventured was to raise my eyes towards the sun, and place my hands           
together in a supplicating posture, and to speak some words in a            
humble melancholy tone, suitable to the condition I then was in. For I      
apprehended every moment that he would dash me against the ground,          
as we usually do any little hateful animal which we have a mind to          
destroy. But my good star would have it, that he appeared pleased with      
my voice and gestures, and began to look upon me as a curiosity,            
much wondering to hear me pronounce articulate words, although he           
could not understand them. In the meantime I was not able to forbear        
groaning and shedding tears, and turning my head towards my sides;          
letting him know, as well as I could, how cruelly I was hurt by the         
pressure of his thumb and finger. He seemed to apprehend my meaning;        
for, lifting up the lappet of his coat, he put me gently into it,           
and immediately ran along with me to his master, who was a substantial      
farmer, and the same person I had first seen in the field.                  
  The farmer having (as I supposed by their talk) received such an          
account of me as his servant could give him, took a piece of a small        
straw, about the size of a walking staff, and therewith lifted up           
the lappets of my coat; which it seems he thought to be some kind of        
covering that nature had given me. He blew my hair aside to take a          
better view of my face. He called his hinds about him, and asked            
them (as I afterwards learned) whether they had ever seen in the            
fields any little creature that resembled me. He then placed me softly      
on the ground upon all four, but I got immediately up, and walked           
slowly backwards and forwards, to let those people see I had no intent      
to run away. They all sat down in a circle about me, the better to          
observe my motions. I pulled off my hat, and made a low bow towards         
the farmer. I fell on my knees, and lifted up my hands and eyes, and        
spoke several words as loud as I could: I took a purse of gold out          
of my pocket, and humbly presented it to him. He received it on the         
palm of his hand, then applied it close to his eye, to see what it          
was, and afterwards turned it several times with the point of a pin         
(which he took out of his sleeve), but could make nothing of it.            
Whereupon I made a sign that he should place his hand on the ground. I      
took the purse, and opening it, poured all the gold into his palm.          
There were six Spanish pieces of four pistoles each, beside twenty          
or thirty smaller coins. I saw him wet the tip of his little finger         
upon his tongue, and take up one of my largest pieces, and then             
another, but he seemed to be wholly ignorant what they were. He made        
me a sign to put them again into my purse, and the purse again into my      
pocket, which after offering to him several times, I thought it best        
to do.                                                                      
  The farmer by this time was convinced I must be a rational creature.      
He spoke often to me, but the sound of his voice pierced my ears            
like that of a water mill, yet his words were articulate enough. I          
answered as loud as I could, in several languages, and he often laid        
his car within two yards of me, but all in vain, for we were wholly         
unintelligible to each other. He then sent his servants to their work,      
and taking his handkerchief out of his pocket, he doubled and spread        
it on his left hand, which he placed flat on the ground, with the palm      
upwards, making me a sign to step into it, as I could easily do, for        
it was not above a foot in thickness. I thought it my part to obey,         
and for fear of falling, laid myself at length upon the                     
handkerchief, with the remainder of which he lapped me up to the            
head for further security, and in this manner carried me home to his        
house. There he called his wife, and showed me to her; but she              
screamed and ran back, as women in England do at the sight of a toad        
or a spider. However, when she had a while seen my behavior, and how        
well I observed the signs her husband made, she was soon reconciled,        
and by degrees grew extremely tender of me.                                 
  It was about twelve at noon, and a servant brought in dinner. It was      
only one substantial dish of meat (fit for the plain condition of an        
husbandman) in a dish of about twenty-four feet in diameter. The            
company were the farmer and his wife, three children, and an old            
grandmother. When they sat down, the farmer placed me at some distance      
from him on the table, which was thirty feet high from the floor. I         
was in a terrible fright, and kept as far as I could from the edge for      
fear of falling. The wife minced a bit of meat, then crumbled some          
bread on a trencher, and placed it before me. I made her a low bow,         
took out my knife and fork, and fell to eating, which gave them             
exceeding delight. The mistress sent her maid for a small dram cup,         
which held about three gallons, and filled it with drink; I took up         
the vessel with much difficulty in both hands, and in a most                
respectful manner drank to her ladyship's health, expressing the words      
as loud as I could in English, which made the company laugh so              
heartily, that I was almost deafened with the noise. This liquor            
tasted like a small cider, and was not unpleasant. Then the master          
made me a sign to come to his trencher side; but as I walked on the         
table, being in great surprise all the time, as the indulgent reader        
will easily conceive and excuse, I happened to stumble against a            
crust, and fell flat on my face, but received no hurt. I got up             
immediately, and observing the good people to be in much concern, I         
took my hat (which I held under my arm out of good manners) and waving      
it over my head, made three huzzas, to show I had gotten no mischief        
by my fall. But advancing forwards toward my master (as I shall             
henceforth call him), his youngest son who sat next him, an arch boy        
of about ten years old, took me up by the legs, and held me so high in      
the air, that I trembled every limb; but his father snatched me from        
him, and at the same time gave him such a box on the left ear, as           
would have felled an European troop of horse to the earth, ordering         
him to be taken from the table. But being afraid the boy might owe          
me a spite, and well remembering how mischievous all children among us      
naturally are to sparrows, rabbits, young kittens, and puppy dogs, I        
fell on my knees, and pointing to the boy, made my master to                
understand, as well as I could, that I desired his son might be             
pardoned. The father complied, and the lad took his seat again;             
whereupon I went to him and kissed his hand, which my master took, and      
made him stroke me gently with it.                                          
  In the midst of dinner, my mistress' favorite cat leaped into her         
lap. I heard a noise behind me like that of a dozen stocking-weavers        
at work; and turning my head, I found it proceeded from the purring of      
this animal, who seemed to be three times larger than an ox, as I           
computed by the view of her head, and one of her paws, while her            
mistress was feeding and stroking her. The fierceness of this               
creature's countenance altogether discomposed me; though I stood at         
the farther end of the table, above fifty feet off and although my          
mistress held her fast for fear she might give a spring, and seize          
me in her talons. But it happened there was no danger; for the cat          
took not the least notice of me when my master placed me within             
three yards of her. And as I have been always told, and found true          
by experience in my travels, that flying, or discovering fear way to        
make it pursue or attack you, so I resolved in this dangerous juncture      
to show no manner of concern. I walked with intrepidity five or six         
times before the very head of the cat, and came within half a yard          
of her; whereupon she drew herself back, as if she were more afraid of      
me: I had less apprehension concerning the dogs, whereof three or four      
came into the room, as it is usual in farmers' houses; one of which         
was a mastiff, equal in bulk to four elephants, and a greyhound,            
somewhat taller than the mastiff, but not so large.                         
                                                    {P_2|CH_1 ^paragraph 10}
  When dinner was almost done, the nurse came in with a Child of a          
year old in her arms, who immediately spied me, and began a squall          
that you might have heard from London Bridge to Chelsea, after the          
usual oratory of infants, to get me for a plaything. The mother out of      
pure indulgence took me up, and put me towards the child, who               
presently seized me by the middle, and got my head in his mouth, where      
I roared so loud that the urchin was frightened, and let me drop;           
and I should infallibly have broken my neck if the mother had not held      
her apron under me. The nurse to quiet her babe made use of a               
rattle, which was a kind of hollow vessel filled with great stones,         
and fastened by a cable to the childs waist: but all in vain, so            
that she was forced to apply the last remedy by giving it suck. I must      
confess no object ever disgusted me so much as the sight of her             
monstrous breast, which I cannot tell what to compare with, so as to        
give the curious reader an idea of its bulk, shape and color. It stood      
prominent six feet, and could not be less than sixteen in                   
circumference. The nipple was about half the size of my head, and           
the hue both of that and the dug so varified with spots, pimples and        
freckles, that nothing could appear more nauseous: for I had a near         
sight of her, she sitting down the more conveniently to give suck, and      
I standing on the table. This made me reflect upon the fair skins of        
our English ladies, who appear so beautiful to us, only because they        
are of our own size, and their defects not to be seen but through a         
magnifying glass, where we find by experiment that the smoothest and        
whitest skins look rough and coarse, and ill colored.                       
  I remember when I was at Lilliput, the complexion of those                
diminutive people appeared to me the fairest in the world; and talking      
upon this subject with a person of learning there, who was an intimate      
friend of mine, he said that my face appeared much fairer and smoother      
when he looked on me from the ground, than it did upon a nearer view        
when I took him up in my hand and brought him close, which he               
confessed was at first a very shocking sight. He said he could              
discover great holes in my skin; that the stumps of my beard were           
ten times stronger than the bristles of a boar, and my complexion made      
up of several colors altogether disagreeable: although I must beg           
leave to say for myself, that I am as fair as most of my sex and            
country, and very little sunburned by all my travels. On the other          
side, discoursing of the ladies in that Emperor's court, he used to         
tell me, one had freckles, another too wide a mouth, a third too large      
a nose, nothing of which I was able to distinguish. I confess this          
reflection was obvious enough; which however I could not forbear, lest      
the reader might think those vast creatures were actually deformed:         
for I must do them justice to say they are a comely race of people;         
and particularly the features of my master's countenance, although          
he were but a farmer, when I beheld him from the height of sixty feet,      
appeared very well proportioned.                                            
  When dinner was done, my master went out to his laborers, and as I        
could discover by his voice and gesture, gave his wife a strict charge      
to take care of me. I was very much tired, and disposed to sleep,           
which my mistress perceiving, she put me on her own bed, and covered        
me with a clean white handkerchief, larger and coarser than the             
mainsail of a man of war.                                                   
  I slept about two hours, and dreamed I was at home with my wife           
and children, which aggravated my sorrows when I awakened and found         
myself alone in a vast room, between two and three hundred feet             
wide, and above two hundred high, lying in a bed twenty yards wide. My      
mistress was gone about her household affairs, and had locked me in.        
The bed was eight yards from the floor. Some natural necessities            
required me to get down; I dare not presume to call, and if I had,          
it would have been in vain, with such a voice as mine, at so great a        
distance from the room where I lay to the kitchen where the family          
kept. While I was under these circumstances, two rats crept up the          
curtains, and ran smelling backwards and forwards on the bed. One of        
them came up almost to my face, whereupon I rose in a fright, and drew      
out my hanger to defend myself. These horrible animals had the              
boldness to attack me on both sides, and one of them held his               
fore-feet at my collar; but I had the good fortune to rip up his belly      
before he could do me any mischief. He fell down at my feet, and the        
other, seeing the fate of his comrade, made his escape, but not             
without one good wound on the back, which I gave him as he fled, and        
made the blood run trickling from him. After this exploit, I walked         
gently to and fro on the bed, to recover my breath and loss of              
spirits. These creatures were of the size of a large mastiff, but           
infinitely more nimble and fierce, so that if I had taken off my            
belt before I went to sleep, I must have infallibly been torn to            
pieces and devoured. I measured the tail of the dead rat, and found it      
to be two yards long, wanting an inch; but it went against my               
stomach to drag the carcass off the bed, where it lay still                 
bleeding; I observed it had yet some life, but with a strong slash          
cross the neck, I thoroughly dispatched it.                                 
  Soon after my mistress came into the room, who seeing me all bloody,      
ran and took me up in her hand. I pointed to the dead rat, smiling and      
making other signs to show I was not hurt, whereat she was extremely        
rejoiced, calling the maid to take up the dead rat with a pair of           
tongs, and throw it out of the window. Then she set me on a table,          
where I showed her my hanger all bloody, and wiping it on the lappet        
of my coat, returned it to the scabbard. I was pressed to do more than      
one thing, which another could not do for me, and therefore endeavored      
to make my mistress understand that I desired to be set down on the         
floor; which after she had done, my bashfulness would not suffer me to      
express myself farther than by pointing to the door, and bowing             
several times. The good woman with much difficulty at last perceived        
what I would be at, and taking me up again in her hand, walked into         
the garden, where she set me down. I went on one side about two             
hundred yards, and beckoning to her not to look or to follow me, I hid      
myself between two leaves of sorrel and there discharged the                
necessities of nature.                                                      
                                                    {P_2|CH_1 ^paragraph 15}
  I hope the gentle reader will excuse me for dwelling on these and         
the like particulars, which however insignificant they may appear to        
grovelling vulgar minds, yet will certainly help a philosopher to           
enlarge his thoughts and imagination, and apply them to the benefit of      
public as well as private life, which was my sole design in presenting      
this and other accounts of my travels to the world; wherein I have          
been chiefly studious of truth, without affecting any ornaments of          
learning or of style. But the whole scene of this voyage made so            
strong an impression on my mind, and is so deeply fixed in my               
memory, that in committing it to paper I did not omit one material          
circumstance: however, upon a strict review, I blotted out several          
passages of less moment which were in my first copy, for fear of being      
censured as tedious and trifling, whereof travelers are often, perhaps      
not without justice, accused.                                               
                                                                            
P_2|CH_2                                                                    
  CHAPTER II                                                                
-                                                                           
  My mistress had a daughter of nine years old, a child of forward          
parts for her age, very dextrous at her needle, and skillful in             
dressing her baby. Her mother and she contrived to fit up the baby's        
cradle for me against night: the cradle was put into a small drawer of      
a cabinet, and the drawer placed upon a hanging shelf for fear of           
the rats. This was my bed all the time I stayed with those people,          
though made more convenient by degrees, as I began to learn their           
language, and make my wants known. This young girl was so handy,            
that after I had once or twice pulled off my clothes before her, she        
was able to dress and undress me, though I never gave her that trouble      
when she would let me do either myself. She made me seven shirts,           
and some other linen, of as fine cloth as could be got, which indeed        
was coarser than sackcloth; and these she constantly washed for me          
with her own hands. She was likewise my school mistress to teach me         
the language: when I pointed to anything, she told me the name of it        
in her own tongue, so that in a few days I was able to call for             
whatever I had a mind to. She was very good-natured, and not above          
forty feet high, being little for her age. She gave me the name of          
Grildrig, which the family took up, and afterwards the whole                
kingdom. The word imports what the Latins call nanunculus the Italians      
homunceletino, and the English mannikin. To her I chiefly owe my            
preservation in that country: we never parted while I was there; I          
called her my Glumdalclitch, or little nurse: and I should be guilty        
of great ingratitude if I omitted this honorable mention of her care        
and affection towards me, which I heartily wish it lay in my power          
to requite as she deserves, instead of being the innocent but               
unhappy instrument of her disgrace, as I have too much reason to fear.      
  It now began to be known and talked of in the neighborhood, that          
my master had found a strange animal in the field, about the bigness        
of a splacknuck, but exactly shaped in every part like a human              
creature; which it likewise imitated in all its actions; seemed to          
speak in a little language of its own, had already learned several          
words of theirs, went erect upon two legs, was tame and gentle,             
would come when it was called, do whatever it was bid, had the              
finest limbs in the world, and a complexion fairer than a nobleman's        
daughter of three years old. Another farmer who lived hard by, and was      
a particular friend of my master, came on a visit on purpose to             
inquire into the truth of this story. I was immediately produced,           
and placed upon a table, where I walked as I was commanded, drew my         
hanger, put it up again, made my reverence to my master's guest, asked      
him in his own language how he did, and told him he was welcome,            
just as my little nurse had instructed me. This man, who was old and        
dim-sighted, put on his spectacles to behold me better, at which I          
could not forbear laughing very heartily, for his eyes appeared like        
the full moon shining into a chamber at two windows. Our people, who        
discovered the cause of my mirth, bore me company in laughing, at           
which the old fellow was fool enough to be angry and out of                 
countenance. He had the character of a great miser, and to my               
misfortune he well deserved it, by the cursed advice he gave my master      
to show me as a sight upon a market day in the next town, which was         
half an hour's riding, about twenty-two miles from our house. I             
guessed there was some mischief contriving, when I observed my              
master and his friend whispering long together, sometimes pointing          
at me; and my fears made me fancy that I overheard and understood some      
of their words. But the next morning Glumdalclitch, my little nurse,        
told me the whole matter, which she had cunningly picked out from           
her mother. The poor girl laid me on her bosom, and fell weeping            
with shame and grief. She apprehended some mischief would happen to me      
from rude vulgar folks, who might squeeze me to death, or break one of      
my limbs by taking me in their hands. She had also observed how modest      
I was in my nature, how nicely I regarded my honor, and what an             
indignity I should conceive it to be exposed for money as a public          
spectacle to the meanest of the people. She said, her papa and mamma        
had promised that Grildrig should be hers, but now she found they           
meant to serve her as they did last year, when they pretended to            
give her a lamb, and yet, as soon as it was fat, sold it to a butcher.      
For my own part, I may truly affirm that I was less concerned than          
my nurse. I had a strong hope which never left me, that I should one        
day recover my liberty; and as to the ignominy of being carried             
about for a monster, I considered myself to be a perfect stranger in        
the country, and that such a misfortune could never be charged upon me      
as a reproach, if ever I should return to England; since the King of        
Great Britain himself, in my condition, must have undergone the same        
distress.                                                                   
  My master, pursuant to the advice of his friend, carried me in a box      
the next market day to the neighboring town, and took along with him        
his little daughter, my nurse, upon a pillion behind him. The box           
was close on every side, with a little door for me to go in and out,        
and a few gimlet holes to let in air. The girl had been so careful          
to put the quilt of her baby's bed into it, for me to lie down on.          
However, I was terribly shaken and discomposed in this journey, though      
it were but of half an hour. For the horse went about forty feet at         
every step, and trotted so high, that the agitation was equal to the        
rising and falling of a ship in a great storm, but much more frequent.      
Our journey was somewhat further than from London to St. Albans. My         
master alighted at an inn which he used to frequent; and after              
consulting a while with the inn-keeper, and making some necessary           
preparations, he hired the Grultrud, or crier, to give notice               
through the town of a strange creature to be seen at the Sign of the        
Green Eagle, not so big as a splacknuck (an animal in that country          
very finely shaped, about six foot long) and in every part of the body      
resembling a human creature, could speak several words, and perform         
a hundred diverting tricks.                                                 
  I was placed upon a table in the largest room of the inn, which           
might be near three hundred feet square. My little nurse stood on a         
low stool close to the table, to take care of me, and direct what I         
should do. My master, to avoid a crowd, would suffer only thirty            
people at a time to see me. I walked about on the table as the girl         
commanded: she asked me questions as far as she knew my                     
understanding of the language reached, and I answered them as loud          
as I could. I turned about several times to the company, paid my            
humble respects, said they were welcome, and used some other                
speeches I had been taught. I took up a thimble filled with liquor,         
which Glumdalclitch had given me for a cup, and drank their health.         
I drew out my hanger, and flourished it after the manner of fencers in      
England. My nurse gave me part of a straw, which I exercised as a           
pike, having learned the art in my youth. I was that day shown to           
twelve sets of company, and as often forced to go over again with           
the same fopperies, till I was half dead with weariness and                 
vexation. For those who had seen me made such wonderful reports,            
that the people were ready to break down the doors to come in. My           
master for his own interest would not suffer any one to touch me            
except my nurse; and, to prevent danger, benches were set around the        
table at such a distance as put me out of everybody's reach.                
However, an unlucky schoolboy aimed a hazel nut directly at my head,        
which very narrowly missed me; otherwise, it came with so much              
violence, that it would have infallibly knocked out my brains, for          
it was almost as large as a small pumpion: but I had the                    
satisfaction to see the young rogue well beaten, and turned out of the      
room.                                                                       
  My master gave public notice that he would show me again the next         
market day, and in the meantime he prepared a more convenient               
vehicle for me, which he had reason enough to do; for I was so tired        
with my first journey, and with entertaining company for eight hours        
together, that I could hardly stand upon my legs or speak a word. It        
was at least three days before I recovered my strength; and that I          
might have no rest at home, all the neighboring gentlemen from a            
hundred miles around, hearing of my fame, came to see me at my              
master's own house. There could not be fewer than thirty persons            
with their wives and children (for the country is very populous);           
and my master demanded the rate of a full room whenever he showed me        
at home, although it were only to a single family; so that for some         
time I had but little ease every day of the week (except Wednesday,         
which is their Sabbath) although I were not carried to the town.            
                                                     {P_2|CH_2 ^paragraph 5}
  My master, finding how profitable I was likely to be, resolved to         
carry me to the most considerable cities of the kingdom. Having             
therefore provided himself with all things necessary for a long             
journey, and settled his affairs at home, he took leave of his wife,        
and upon the 17th of August, 1703, about two months after my                
arrival, we set out for the metropolis, situated near the middle of         
that empire, and about three thousand miles distance from our house.        
My master made his daughter Glumdalclitch ride behind him. She carried      
me on her lap in a box tied about her waist. The girl had lined it          
on all sides with the softest cloth she could get, well quilted             
underneath, furnished it with her baby's bed, provided me with linen        
and other necessaries, and made everything as convenient as she could.      
We had no other company but a boy of the house, who rode after us with      
the luggage.                                                                
  My master's design was to show me in all the towns by the way, and        
to step out of the road for fifty or a hundred miles, to any village        
or person of quality's house where he might expect custom. We made          
easy journeys of not above seven or eight score miles a day: for            
Glumdalclitch, on purpose to spare me, complained she was tired with        
the trotting of the horse. She often took me out of my box at my own        
desire, to give me air and show me the country, but always held me          
fast by a leading string. We passed over five or six rivers many            
degrees broader and deeper than the Nile or the Ganges; and there           
was hardly a rivulet so small as the Thames at London Bridge. We            
were ten weeks in our journey, and I was shown in eighteen large towns      
besides many villages and private families.                                 
  On the 26th day of October, we arrived at the metropolis, called          
in their language Lorbrulgrud, or Pride of the Universe. My master          
took a lodging in the principal street of the city, not far from the        
royal palace, and put out bills in the usual form, containing an exact      
description of my person and parts. He hired a large room between           
three and four hundred feet wide. He provided a table sixty feet in         
diameter, upon which I was to act my part, and palisadoed it around         
three feet from the edge, and as many high, to prevent my falling           
over. I was shown ten times a day to the wonder and satisfaction of         
all people. I could now speak the language tolerably well, and              
perfectly understood every word that was spoken to me. Besides, I           
had learned their alphabet, and could make a shift to explain a             
sentence here and there; for Glumdalclitch had been my instructor           
while we were at home, and at leisure hours during our journey. She         
carried a little book in her pocket, not much larger than a Sanson's        
Atlas; it was a common treatise for the use of young girls, giving a        
short account of their religion: out of this she taught me my letters,      
and interpreted the words.                                                  
                                                                            
P_2|CH_3                                                                    
  CHAPTER III                                                               
-                                                                           
  The frequent labors I underwent every day made in a few weeks a very      
considerable change in my health: the more my master got by me, the         
more unsatiable he grew. I had quite lost my stomach, and was almost        
reduced to a skeleton. The farmer observed it, and concluding I soon        
must die, resolved to make as good a hand of me as he could. While          
he was thus reasoning and resolving with himself, a Slardral, or            
Gentleman Usher, came from court, commanding my master to carry me          
immediately thither for the diversion of the Queen and her ladies.          
Some of the latter had already been to see me, and reported strange         
things of my beauty, behavior, and good sense. Her Majesty and those        
who attended her were beyond measure delighted with my demeanor. I          
fell on my knees, and begged the honor of kissing her Imperial foot;        
but this gracious princess held out her little finger towards me            
(after I was set on a table) which I embraced in both my arms, and put      
the tip of it with the utmost respect to my lip. She made me some           
general questions about my country and my travels, which I answered as      
distinctly and in as few words as I could. She asked whether I would        
be content to live at court. I bowed down to the board of the table,        
and humbly answered, that I was my master's slave, but if I were at my      
own disposal, I should be proud to devote my life to her Majesty's          
service. She then asked my master whether he were willing to sell me        
at a good price. He, who apprehended I could not live a month, was          
ready enough to part with me, and demanded a thousand pieces of             
gold, which were ordered him on the spot, each piece being about the        
bigness of eight hundred moidores; but, allowing for the proportion of      
all things between that country and Europe, and the high price of gold      
among them, was hardly so great a sum as a thousand guineas would be        
in England. I then said to the Queen, since I was now her Majesty's         
most humble creature and vassal, I must beg the favor, that                 
Glumdalclitch, who had always tended me with so much care and               
kindness, and understood to do it so well, might be admitted into           
her service, and continue to be my nurse and instructor. Her Majesty        
agreed to my petition, and easily got the farmer's consent, who was         
glad enough to have his daughter preferred at court: and the poor girl      
herself was not able to hide her joy. My late master withdrew, bidding      
me farewell, and saying he had left me in a good service; to which I        
replied not a word, only making him a slight bow.                           
  The Queen observed my coldness, and when the farmer was gone out          
of the apartment, asked me the reason. I made bold to tell her Majesty      
that I owed no other obligation to my late master, than his not             
dashing out the brains of a poor harmless creature found by chance          
in his field; which obligation was amply recompensed by the gain he         
had made in showing me through half the kingdom, and the price he           
had now sold me for. That the life I had since led was laborious            
enough to kill an animal of ten times my strength. That my health           
was much impaired by the continual drudgery of entertaining the rabble      
every hour of the day, and that if my master had not thought my life        
in danger, her Majesty perhaps would not have got so cheap a                
bargain. But as I was out of all fear of being ill treated under the        
protection of so great and good an Empress, the Ornament of Nature,         
the Darling of the World, the Delight of her Subjects, the Phoenix          
of the Creation; so I hoped my late master's apprehensions would            
appear to be groundless, for I already found my spirits to revive by        
the influence of her most august presence.                                  
  This was the sum of my speech, delivered with great improprieties         
and hesitation; the latter part was altogether framed in the style          
peculiar to that people, whereof I learned some phrases from                
Glumdalclitch, while she was carrying me to court.                          
  The Queen giving great allowance for my defectiveness in speaking,        
was however surprised at so much wit and good sense in so diminutive        
an animal. She took me in her own hand, and carried me to the King,         
who was then retired to his cabinet. His Majesty, a prince of much          
gravity, and austere countenance, not well observing my shape at first      
view, asked the Queen after a cold manner, how long it was since she        
grew fond of a splacknuck; for such it seems he took me to be, as I         
lay upon my breast in her Majesty's right hand. But this princess, who      
has an infinite deal of wit and humor, set me gently on my feet upon        
the scrutore, and commanded me to give his Majesty an account of            
myself, which I did in a very few words; and Glumdalclitch, who             
attended at the cabinet door, and could not endure I should be out          
of her sight, being admitted, confirmed all that had passed from my         
arrival at her father's house.                                              
  The King, although he be as learned a person as any in his                
dominions, and had been educated in the study of philosophy, and            
particularly mathematics; yet when he observed my shape exactly, and        
saw me walk erect, before I began to speak, conceived I might be a          
piece of clockwork (which is in that country arrived to a very great        
perfection), contrived by some ingenious artist. But when he heard          
my voice, and found what I delivered to be regular and rational, he         
could not conceal his astonishment. He was by no means satisfied            
with the relation I gave him of the manner I came into his kingdom,         
but thought it a story concerted between Glumdalclitch and her father,      
who had taught me a set of words to make me sell at a higher price.         
Upon this imagination he put several other questions to me, and             
still received rational answers, no otherwise defective than by a           
foreign accent, and an imperfect knowledge in the language, with            
some rustic phrases which I had learned at the farmer's house, and did      
not suit the polite style of a court.                                       
                                                     {P_2|CH_3 ^paragraph 5}
  His Majesty sent for three great scholars who were then in their          
weekly waiting, according to the custom in that country. These              
gentlemen, after they had awhile examined my shape with much nicety,        
were of different opinions concerning me. They all agreed that I could      
not be produced according to the regular laws of nature, because I was      
not framed with a capacity of preserving my life, either by swiftness,      
or climbing of trees, or digging holes in the earth. They observed          
by my teeth, which they viewed with great exactness, that I was a           
carnivorous animal; yet most quadrupeds being an overmatch for me, and      
field mice, with some others, too nimble, they could not imagine how I      
should be able to support myself, unless I fed upon snails and other        
insects, which they offered, by many learned arguments, to evince that      
I could not possibly do. One of these virtuosi seemed to think that         
I might be an embryo, or abortive birth. But this opinion was rejected      
by the other two, who observed my limbs to be perfect and finished,         
and that I had lived several years, as it was manifested from my            
beard, the stumps whereof they plainly discovered through a magnifying      
glass. They would not allow me to be a dwarf, because my littleness         
was beyond all degrees of comparison; for the Queen's favorite              
dwarf, the smallest ever known in that kingdom, was nearly thirty feet      
high. After much debate, they concluded unanimously that I was only         
relplum scalcath, which is interpreted literally, lusus naturae; a          
determination exactly agreeable to the modern philosophy of Europe,         
whose professors, disdaining the old evasion of occult causes, whereby      
the followers of Artistotle endeavor in vain to disguise their              
ignorance, have invented this wonderful solution of all                     
difficulties, to the unspeakable advancement of human knowledge.            
  After this decisive conclusion, I entreated to be heard a word or         
two. I applied myself to the King, and assured his Majesty, that I          
came from a country which abounded with several millions of both            
sexes, and of my own stature; where the animals, trees, and houses          
were all in proportion, and where by consequence I might be as able to      
defend myself, and to find sustenance, as any of his Majesty's              
subjects could do here; which I took for a full answer to those             
gentlemen's arguments. To this they only replied with a smile of            
contempt, saying that the farmer had instructed me very well in my          
lesson. The King, who had a much better understanding, dismissing           
his learned men, sent for the farmer, who by good fortune was not           
yet gone out of town. Having therefore first examined him privately,        
and then confronted him with me and the young girl, his Majesty             
began to think that what we told him might possibly be true. He             
desired the Queen to order that a particular care should be taken of        
me, and was of opinion that Glumdalclitch should still continue in her      
office of tending me, because he observed we had a great affection for      
each other. A convenient apartment was provided for her at court;           
she had a sort of governess appointed to take care of her education, a      
maid to dress her, and two other servants for menial offices; but           
the care of me was wholly appropriated to herself. The Queen commanded      
her own cabinet maker to contrive a box that might serve me for a           
bedchamber, after the model that Glumdalclitch and I should agree           
upon. This man was a most ingenious artist, and according to my             
directions, in three weeks finished for me a wooden chamber of sixteen      
feet square, and twelve high, with sash windows, a door, and two            
closets, like a London bedchamber. The board that made the ceiling was      
to be lifted up and down by two hinges, to put in a bed ready               
furnished by her Majesty's upholsterer, which Glumdalclitch took out        
every day to air, made it with her own hands, and letting it down at        
night, locked up the roof over me. A nice workman, who was famous           
for little curiosities, undertook to make me two chairs, with backs         
and frames, of a substance not unlike ivory, and two tables, with a         
cabinet to put my things in. The room was quilted on all sides, as          
well as the floor and the ceiling, to prevent any accident from the         
carelessness of those who carried me, and to break the force of a jolt      
when I went in a coach. I desired a lock for my door, to prevent            
rats and mice from coming in: the smith, after several attempts,            
made the smallest that ever was seen among them, for I have known a         
larger at the gate of a gentleman's house in England. I made a shift        
to keep the key in a pocket of my own, fearing Glumdalclitch might          
lose it. The Queen likewise ordered the thinnest silks that could be        
gotten, to make me clothes, not much thicker than an English                
blanket, very cumbersome till I was accustomed to them. They were           
after the fashion of the kingdom, partly resembling the Persian, and        
partly the Chinese, and are a very grave and decent habit.                  
  The Queen became so fond of my company, that she could not dine           
without me. I had a table placed upon the same at which her Majesty         
ate, just at her left elbow, and a chair to sit on. Glumdalclitch           
stood upon a stool on the floor, near my table, to assist and take          
care of me. I had an entire set of silver dishes and plates, and other      
necessaries, which, in proportion to those of the Queen, were not much      
bigger than what I have seen of the same kind in a London toy shop,         
for the furniture of a babyhouse: these my little nurse kept in her         
pocket in a silver box, and gave me at meals as I wanted them,              
always cleaning them herself. No person dined with the Queen but the        
two Princesses Royal, the elder sixteen years old, and the younger          
at that time thirteen and a month. Her Majesty used to put a bit of         
meat upon one of my dishes, out of which I carved for myself, and           
her diversion was to see me eat in miniature. For the Queen (who had        
indeed but a weak stomach) took up at one mouthful as much as a             
dozen English farmers could eat at a meal, which to me was for some         
time a very nauseous sight. She would crunch the wing of a lark, bones      
and all, between her teeth, although it were nine times as large as         
that of a full grown turkey; and put a bit of bread into her mouth, as      
big as two twelve-penny loaves. She drank out of a golden cup, above a      
hogshead at a draught. Her knives were twice as long as a scythe set        
straight upon the handle. The spoons, forks, and other instruments          
were all in the same proportion. I remember when Glumdalclitch carried      
me out of curiosity to see some of the tables at court, where ten or a      
dozen of these enormous knives and forks were lifted up together, I         
thought I had never till then beheld so terrible a sight.                   
  It is the custom that every Wednesday (which, as I have before            
observed, was their Sabbath) the King and Queen, with the royal             
issue of both sexes, dine together in the apartment of his Majesty, to      
whom I was now become a great favorite; and at these times my little        
chair and table were placed at his left hand, before one of the salt        
cellars. This prince took a pleasure in conversing with me,                 
inquiring into the manners, religion, laws, government, and learning        
of Europe; wherein I gave him the best account I was able. His              
apprehension was so clear, and his judgment so exact, that he made          
very wise reflections and observations upon all I said. But, I              
confess, that after I had been a little too copious in talking of my        
own beloved country, of our trade, and wars by sea and land, of our         
schisms in religion, and parties in the state, the prejudices of his        
education prevailed so far, that he could not forbear taking me up          
in his right hand, and stroking me gently with the other, after an          
hearty fit of laughing, asked me whether I were a Whig or a Tory. Then      
turning to his first minister, who waited behind him with a white           
staff, near as tall as the mainmast of the Royal Sovereign, he              
observed how contemptible a thing was human grandeur, which could be        
mimicked by such diminutive insects as I: and yet, said he, I dare          
engage, these creatures have their titles and distinctions of honor,        
they contrive little nests and burrows, that they call houses and           
cities; they make a figure in dress and equipage; they love, they           
fight, they dispute, they cheat, they betray. And thus he continued         
on, while my color came and went several times with indignation to          
hear our noble country, the mistress of arts and arms, the scourge          
of France, the arbitress of Europe, the seat of virtue, piety, honor        
and truth, the pride and envy of the world, contemptuously treated.         
  But as I was not in a condition to resent injuries, so, upon              
mature thoughts, I began to doubt whether I were injured or not.            
For, after having been accustomed several months to the sight and           
converse of this people, and observed every object upon which I cast        
my eyes to be of proportionable magnitude, the horror I had first           
conceived from their bulk and aspect was so far worn off, that if I         
had then beheld a company of English lords and ladies in their              
finery and best day clothes, acting their several parts in the most         
courtly manner, of strutting, and bowing, and prating, to say the           
truth, I should have been strongly tempted to laugh as much at them as      
the King and his grandees did at me. Neither indeed could I forbear         
smiling at myself, when the Queen used to place me upon her hand            
towards a looking glass, by which both our persons appeared before          
me in full view together! and there could be nothing more ridiculous        
than the comparison; so that I really began to imagine myself dwindled      
many degrees below my usual size.                                           
                                                    {P_2|CH_3 ^paragraph 10}
  Nothing angered and mortified me so much as the Queen's dwarf, who        
being of the lowest stature that was ever that country (for I verily        
think he was not thirty feet high) became insolent at seeing a              
creature so much beneath him, that he would always affect to swagger        
and look big as he passed by me in the Queen's antechamber, while I         
was standing on some table talking with the lords or ladies of the          
court, and he seldom failed of a smart word or two upon my littleness;      
against which I could only revenge myself by calling him brother,           
challenging him to wrestle, and such repartees as are usual in the          
mouths of court pages. One day at dinner this malicious little cub was      
so nettled with something I had said to him, that raising himself upon      
the frame of her Majesty's chair, he took me up by the middle, as I         
was sitting down, not thinking any harm, and let me drop into a             
large silver bowl of cream, and then ran away as fast as he could. I        
fell over head and ears, and if I had not been a good swimmer, it           
might have gone very hard with me; for Glumdalclitch in that instant        
happened to be at the other end of the room, and the Queen was in such      
a fright that she wanted presence of mind to assist me. But my              
little nurse ran to my relief, and took me out, after I had                 
swallowed above a quart of cream. I was put to bed; however, I              
received no other damage than the loss of a suit of clothes, which was      
utterly spoiled. The dwarf was soundly whipped, and as a farther            
punishment, forced to drink up the bowl of cream, into which he had         
thrown me; neither was he ever restored to favor; for soon after the        
Queen bestowed him to a lady of high quality, so that I saw him no          
more, to my very great satisfaction; for I could not tell to what           
extremity such a malicious urchin might have carried his resentment.        
  He had before served me a scurvy trick, which set the Queen a             
laughing, although at the same time she was heartily vexed, and             
would have immediately cashiered him, if I had not been so generous as      
to intercede. Her Majesty had taken a marrow bone upon her plate,           
and after knocking out the marrow, placed the bone again in the dish        
erect as it stood before; the dwarf watching his opportunity, while         
Glumdalclitch was gone to the sideboard, mounted upon the stool she         
stood on to take care of me at meals, took me up in both hands, and         
squeezing my legs together, wedged them into the marrow bone above          
my waist, where I stuck for some time, and made a very ridiculous           
figure. I believe it was near a minute before any one knew what was         
become of me, for I thought it below me to cry out. But, as princes         
seldom get their meat hot, my legs were not scalded, only my stockings      
and breeches in a sad condition. The dwarf at my entreaty had no other      
punishment than a sound whipping.                                           
  I was frequently rallied by the Queen upon account of my                  
fearfulness, and she used to ask me whether the people of ray               
country were as great cowards as myself. The occasion was this. The         
kingdom is much pestered with flies in summer; and these odious             
insects, each of them as big as a Dunstable lark, hardly gave me any        
rest while I sat at dinner, with their continual humming and buzzing        
about my ears. They would sometimes alight upon my victuals; and leave      
their loathsome excrement or spawn behind, which to me was very             
visible, though not to the natives of that country, whose large optics      
were not so acute as mine in viewing smaller objects. Sometimes they        
would fix upon my nose or forehead, where they stung me to the              
quick, smelling very offensively, and I could easily trace that             
viscous matter, which our naturalists tell us enables those                 
creatures to walk with their feet upwards upon a ceiling. I had much        
ado to defend myself against these detestable animals, and could not        
forbear starting when they came on my face. It was the common practice      
of the dwarf to catch a number of these insects in his hand, as             
schoolboys do among us, and let them out suddenly under my nose, on         
purpose to frighten me, and divert the Queen. My remedy was to cut          
them in pieces with my knife as they flew in the air, wherein my            
dexterity was much admired.                                                 
  I remember one morning when Glumdalclitch had set me in my box            
upon a window, as she usually did in fair days to give me air (for I        
dared not venture to let the box be hung on a nail out of the               
window, as we do with cages in England) after I had lifted up one of        
my sashes, and sat down at my table to eat a piece of sweet cake for        
my breakfast, above twenty wasps, allured by the smell, came flying         
into the room, humming louder than the drones of as many bagpipes.          
Some of them seized my cake, and carried it piecemeal away, others          
flew about my head and face, confounding me with the noise, and             
putting me in the utmost terror of their stings. However I had the          
courage to rise and draw my hanger, and attack them in the air. I           
dispatched four of them, but the rest got away, and I presently shut        
my window. These insects were as large as partridges: I took out their      
stings, found them an inch and a half long, and as sharp as needles. I      
carefully preserved them all, and having since shown them with some         
other curiosities in several parts of Europe, upon my return to             
England I gave three of them to Gresham College, and kept the fourth        
for myself.                                                                 
                                                                            
P_2|CH_4                                                                    
  CHAPTER IV                                                                
-                                                                           
  I now intend to give the reader a short description of this country,      
as far as I traveled in it, which was not above two thousand miles          
round Lorbrulgrud, the metropolis. For the Queen, whom I always             
attended, never went further when she accompanied the King in his           
progresses, and there stayed until his Majesty returned from viewing        
his frontiers. The whole extent of this prince's dominions reaches          
about six thousand miles in length, and from three to five in breadth.      
From whence I cannot but conclude that our geographers of Europe are        
in a great error, by supposing nothing but sea between Japan and            
California; for it was ever my opinion, that there must be a balance        
of earth to counterpoise the great continent of Tartary; and therefore      
they ought to correct their maps and charts, by joining this vast           
tract of land to the northwest parts of America, wherein I shall be         
ready to lend them my assistance.                                           
  The kingdom is a peninsula, terminated to the northeast by a ridge        
of mountains thirty miles high, which are altogether impassable by          
reason of the volcanoes upon the tops. Neither do the most learned          
know what sort of mortals inhabit beyond those mountains, or whether        
they be inhabited at all. On the three other sides it is bounded by         
the ocean. There is not one seaport in the whole kingdom, and those         
parts of the coasts into which the rivers issue are so full of pointed      
rocks, and the sea generally so rough, that there is no venturing with      
the smallest of their boats, so that these people are wholly                
excluded from any commerce with the rest of the world. But the large        
rivers are full of vessels, and abound with excellent fish, for they        
seldom get any from the sea because the sea fish are of the same            
size with those in Europe, and consequently not worth catching;             
whereby it is manifest, that nature, in the production of plants and        
animals of so extraordinary a bulk, is wholly confined to this              
continent, of which I leave the reasons to be determined by                 
philosophers. However, now and then they take a whale that happens          
to be dashed against the rocks, which the common people feed on             
heartily. These whales I have known so large that a man could hardly        
carry one upon his shoulders; and sometimes for curiosity they are          
brought in hampers to Lorbrulgrud: I saw one of them in a dish at           
the King's table, which passed for a rarity, but I did not observe          
he was fond of it; for I think indeed the bigness disgusted him,            
although I have seen one somewhat larger in Greenland.                      
  The country is well inhabited, for it contains fifty-one cities,          
near a hundred walled towns, and a great number of villages. To             
satisfy my curious reader, it may be sufficient to describe                 
Lorbrulgrud. This city stands upon almost two equal parts on each side      
the river that passes through. It contains above eighty thousand            
houses, and about six hundred thousand inhabitants. It is in length         
three glonglungs (which make about fifty-four English miles) and two        
and a half in breadth, as I measured it myself in the royal map made        
by the King's order, which was laid on the ground on purpose for me,        
and extended a hundred feet; I paced the diameter and circumference         
several times barefoot, and computing by the scale, measured it pretty      
exactly.                                                                    
  The King's palace is no regular edifice, but a heap of building           
about seven miles around: the chief rooms are generally two hundred         
and forty feet high, and broad and long proportion. A coach was             
allowed to Glumdalclitch and me, wherein her governess frequently took      
her out to see the town, or go among the shops; and I was always of         
the party, carried in my box; although the girl at my own desire would      
often take me out, and hold me in her hand, that I might more               
conveniently view the houses and the people, as we passed along the         
streets. I reckoned our coach to be about a square of Westminster           
Hall, but not altogether so high; however, I cannot be very exact. One      
day the governess ordered our coachman to stop at several shops, where      
the beggars, watching their opportunity, crowded to the sides of the        
coach, and gave me the most horrible spectacles that ever an English        
eye beheld. There was a woman with a cancer in her breast, swelled          
to a monstrous size, full of holes, in two or three of which I could        
have easily crept, and covered my whole body. There was a fellow            
with a wen in his neck, larger than five wool-packs, and another            
with a couple of wooden legs, each about twenty feet high. But the          
most hateful sight of all was the lice crawling on their clothes. I         
could see distinctly the limbs of these vermin with my naked eye, much      
better than those of an European louse through a microscope, and their      
snouts with which they rooted like swine. They were the first I had         
ever beheld, and I should have been curious enough to dissect one of        
them, if I had proper instruments (which I unluckily left behind me in      
the shop) although indeed the sight was so nauseous, that it perfectly      
turned my stomach.                                                          
  Besides the large box in which I was usually carried, the Queen           
ordered a smaller one to be made for me, of about twelve feet               
square, and ten high, for the convenience of traveling, because the         
other was somewhat too large for Glumdalclitch's lap, and cumbersome        
in the coach; it was made by the same artist, whom I directed in the        
whole contrivance. This traveling closet was an exact square with a         
window in the middle of three of the squares, and each window was           
latticed with iron wire on the outside, to prevent accidents in long        
journeys. On the fourth side, which had no window, two strong               
staples were fixed, through which the person that carried me, when I        
had a mind to be on horseback, put in a leathern belt, and buckled          
it about his waist. This was always the office of some grave trusty         
servant in whom I could confide, whether I attended the King and Queen      
in their progresses, or were disposed to see the gardens, or pay a          
visit to some great lady or minister of state in the court, when            
Glumdalclitch happened to be out of order: for I soon began to be           
known and esteemed among the greatest officers, I suppose more upon         
account of their Majesties' favor, than any merit of my own. In             
journeys, when I was weary of the coach, a servant on horseback             
would buckle my box, and place it on a cushion before him; and there I      
had a full prospect of the country on three sides from my three             
windows. I had in this closet a field bed and a hung from the ceiling,      
two chairs and a table, neatly screwed to the floor, to prevent             
being tossed about by the agitation of the horse or the coach. And          
having been long used to sea voyages, those motions, although               
sometimes very violent, did not much discompose me.                         
                                                     {P_2|CH_4 ^paragraph 5}
  Whenever I had a mind to see the town, it was always in my traveling      
closet, which Glumdalclitch held in her lap in a kind of open sedan,        
after the fashion of the country, borne by four men, and attended by        
two others in the Queen's livery. The people who had often heard of         
me, were very curious to crowd about the sedan, and the girl was            
complaisant enough to make the bearers stop, and to take me in her          
hand that I might be more conveniently seen.                                
  I was very desirous to see the chief temple, and particularly the         
tower belonging to it, which is reckoned the highest in the kingdom.        
Accordingly, one day my nurse carried me thither, but I may truly           
say I came back disappointed; for height is not above three thousand        
feet, reckoning from the ground to the highest pinnacle top; which          
allowing for the difference between the size of those people and us in      
Europe, is no great matter for admiration, nor at all equal in              
proportion (if I rightly remember) to Salisbury steeple. But, not to        
detract from a nation to which during my life I shall acknowledge           
myself extremely obliged, it must be allowed that whatever this famous      
tower wants in height is amply made up in beauty and strength. For the      
walls are near a hundred feet thick, built of hewn stone, whereof each      
is about forty feet square, and adorned on all sides with statues of        
gods and emperors cut in marble larger than the life, placed in             
their several niches. I measured a little finger which had fallen down      
from one of these statues, and lay unperceived among some rubbish, and      
found it exactly four feet and an inch in length. Glumdalclitch             
wrapped it up in a handkerchief, and carried it home in her pocket          
to keep among other trinkets, of which the girl was very fond, as           
children at her age usually are.                                            
  The King's kitchen is indeed a noble building, vaulted at top, and        
about six hundred feet high. The great oven is not so wide by ten           
yards as the cupola at St. Paul's; for I measured the latter on             
purpose after my return. But if I should describe the kitchen grate,        
the prodigious pots and kettles, the joints of meat turning on the          
spits, with many other particulars, perhaps I should be hardly              
believed; at least a severe critic would be apt to think I enlarged         
a little, as travelers are often suspected to do. To avoid which            
censure, I fear I have run too much into the other extreme; and that        
if this treatise should happen to be translated into the language of        
Brobdingnag (which is the general name of that kingdom) and                 
transmitted thither, the King and his people would have reason to           
complain that I had done them an injury by a false and diminutive           
representation.                                                             
  His Majesty seldom keeps above six hundred horses in his stables:         
they are generally from fifty-four to sixty feet high. But when he          
goes abroad on solemn days, he is attended for state by a militia           
guard of five hundred horse, which indeed I thought was the most            
splendid sight that could be ever beheld, till I saw part of his            
army in battalia, whereof I shall find another occasion to speak.           
                                                                            
P_2|CH_5                                                                    
  CHAPTER V                                                                 
-                                                                           
  I should have lived happy enough in that country, if my littleness        
had not exposed me to several ridiculous and troublesome accidents,         
some of which I shall venture to relate. Glumdalclitch often carried        
me into the gardens of the court in my smaller box, and would               
sometimes take me out of it and hold me in her hand, or set me down to      
walk. I remember, before the dwarf left the Queen, he followed us           
one day into those gardens, and my nurse having set me down, he and         
I being close together, near some dwarf apple trees, I must needs show      
my wit by a silly allusion between him and the trees, which happens to      
hold in their language as it does in ours. Whereupon, the malicious         
rogue watching his opportunity, when I was walking under one of             
them, shook it directly over my head, by which a dozen apples, each of      
them near as large as a Bristol barrel, came tumbling about my ears;        
one of them hit me on the back as I chanced to stoop, and knocked me        
down flat on my face, but I received no other hurt, and the dwarf           
was pardoned at my desire, because I had given the provocation.             
  Another day Glumdalclitch left me on a smooth grass plot to divert        
myself while she walked at some distance with her governess. In the         
meantime there suddenly fell such a violent shower of hail, that I was      
immediately by the force of it struck to the ground: and when I was         
down, the hailstones gave me such cruel bangs all over the body, as if      
I had been pelted with tennis balls; however, I made a shift to             
creep on all fours, and shelter myself by lying flat on my face on the      
lee side of a border of lemon thyme, but so bruised from head to            
foot that I could not go abroad in ten days. Neither is this at all to      
be wondered at, because nature in that country observing the same           
proportion through all her operations, a hailstone is near eighteen         
hundred times as large as one in Europe, which I can assert upon            
experience, having been so curious to weigh and measure them.               
  But a more dangerous accident happened to me in the same garden,          
when my little nurse believing she had put me in a secure place, which      
I often entreated her to do, that might enjoy my own thoughts, and          
having left my box at home to avoid the trouble of carrying it, went        
to another part of the garden with her governess and some ladies of         
her acquaintance. While she was absent and out of hearing, a small          
white spaniel belonging to one of the chief gardeners, having got by        
accident into the garden, happened to range near the place where I          
lay. The dog following the scent, came directly up, and taking me in        
his mouth, ran straight to his master, wagging his tail, and set me         
gently on the ground. By good fortune he had been so well taught, that      
I was carried between his teeth without the least hurt, or even             
tearing my clothes. But the poor gardener, who knew me well, and had a      
great kindness for me, was in a terrible fright. He gently took me          
up in both his hands, and asked me how I did; but I was so amazed           
and out of breath, that I could not speak a word. In a few minutes I        
came to myself, and he carried me safe to my little nurse, who by this      
time had returned to the place where she left me, and was in cruel          
agonies when I did not appear, nor answer when she called: she              
severely reprimanded the gardener on account of his dog. But the thing      
was hushed up, and never known at court; for the girl was afraid of         
the Queen's anger, and truly as to myself, I thought it would not be        
for my reputation that such a story should go about.                        
  This accident absolutely determined Glumdalclitch never to trust          
me abroad for the future out of her sight. I had been long afraid of        
this resolution, and therefore concealed from her some little               
unlucky adventures that happened in those times when I was left by          
myself. Once a kite hovering over the garden made a swoop at me, and        
if I had not resolutely drawn my hanger, and run under a thick              
espalier, he would have certainly carried me away in his talons.            
Another time walking to the top of a fresh molehill, I fell to my neck      
in the hole through which that animal had cast up the earth, and            
coined some lie, not worth remembering, to excuse myself for                
spoiling my clothes. I likewise broke my right shin against the             
shell of a snail, which I happened to stumble over, as I was walking        
alone, and thinking on poor England.                                        
  I cannot tell whether I were more pleased or mortified, to observe        
in those solitary walks that the smaller birds did not appear to be at      
all afraid of me, but would hop about within a yard's distance,             
looking for worms and other food with as much indifference and              
security as if no creature at all were near them. I remember a              
thrush had the confidence to snatch out of my hand with his bill a          
piece of cake that Glumdalclitch had just given me for my breakfast.        
When I attempted to catch any of these birds, they would boldly turn        
against me, endeavoring to pick my fingers, which I dared not               
venture within their reach; and then they would hop back unconcerned        
to hunt for worms or snails, as they did before. But one day I took         
a thick cudgel, and threw it with all my strength so luckily at a           
linnet that I knocked him down, and seizing him by the neck with            
both my hands, ran with him in triumph to my nurse. However, the bird,      
who had only been stunned, recovering himself, gave me so many boxes        
with his wings on both sides of my head and body, though I held him at      
arm's length, and was out of the reach of his claws, that I was twenty      
times thinking to let him go. But I was soon relieved by one of our         
servants, who wrung off the bird's neck, and I had him next day for         
dinner, by the Queen's command. This as near as I can remember, to          
be somewhat larger than an English swan.                                    
                                                     {P_2|CH_5 ^paragraph 5}
  The Maids of Honor often invited Glumdalclitch to their                   
apartments, and desired she would bring me along with her, on               
purpose to have the pleasure of seeing and touching me. They would          
often strip me naked from top to toe, and lay me at full length in          
their bosoms; wherewith I was much disgusted; because, to say the           
truth, a very offensive smell came from their skins; which I do not         
mention or intend to the disadvantage of those excellent ladies, for        
whom I have all manner of respect; but I conceive that my sense was         
more acute in proportion to my littleness, and that those                   
illustrious persons were no more disagreeable to their lovers, or to        
each other, than people of the same quality are with us in England.         
And, after all, I found their natural smell was much more                   
supportable than when they used perfumes, under which I immediately         
swooned away. I cannot forget that an intimate friend of mine in            
Lilliput took the freedom in a warm day, when I had used a good deal        
of exercise, to complain of a strong smell about me, although I am          
as little faulty that way as most of my sex: but I suppose his faculty      
of smelling was as nice with regard to me, as mine was to that of this      
people. Upon this point, I cannot forbear doing justice to the Queen        
my mistress, and Glumdalclitch my nurse, whose persons were as sweet        
as those of any lady in England.                                            
  That which gave me most uneasiness among these Maids of Honor,            
when my nurse carried me to visit them, was to see them use me without      
any manner of ceremony, like a creature who had no sort of                  
consequence. For they would strip themselves to the skin, and put on        
their smocks in my presence, while I was placed on their toilet             
directly before their naked bodies, which, I am sure, to me was very        
far from being a tempting sight, or from giving me any other                
emotions than those of horror and disgust. Their skins appeared so          
coarse and uneven, so variously colored, when I saw them near, with         
a mole here and there as broad as a trencher, and hairs hanging from        
it thicker than packthreads, to say nothing further concerning the          
rest of their persons. Neither did they at all scruple, while I was         
by, to discharge what they had drunk, to the quantity of at least           
two hogsheads, in a vessel that held above three tons. The                  
handsomest among these Maids of Honor, a pleasant frolicsome girl of        
sixteen, would sometimes set me astride upon one of her nipples,            
with many other tricks, wherein the reader will excuse me for not           
being over particular. But I was so much displeased, that I                 
entreated Glumdalclitch to contrive some excuse for not seeing that         
young lady any more.                                                        
  One day a young gentleman, who was a nephew to my nurse's governess,      
came and pressed them both to see an execution. It was of a man who         
had murdered one of that gentleman's intimate acquaintance.                 
Glumdalclitch was prevailed on to be of the company, very much against      
her inclination, for she was naturally tender-hearted; and as for           
myself, although I abhorred such kind of spectacles, yet my                 
curiosity tempted me to see something that I thought must be                
extraordinary. The malefactor was fixed in a chair upon a scaffold          
erected for the purpose, and his head cut off at a blow with a sword        
of about forty foot long. The veins and arteries spouted up such a          
prodigious quantity of blood, and so high in the air, that the great        
jet d'eau at Versailles was not equal for the time it lasted; and           
the head, when it fell on the scaffold floor, gave such a bounce, as        
made me start, although I were at least half an English mile distant.       
  The Queen, who often used to hear me talk of my sea voyages, and          
took all occasions to divert me when I was melancholy, asked me             
whether I understood how to handle a sail or an oar, and whether a          
little exercise of rowing might not be convenient for my health. I          
answered that I understood both very well. For, although my proper          
employment had been to be surgeon or doctor to the ship, yet upon a         
pinch, I was forced to work like a common mariner. But I could not see      
how this could be done in their country, where the smallest wherry was      
equal to a first-rate man of war among us, and such a boat as I             
could manage would never live in any of their rivers. Her Majesty           
said, if I would contrive a boat, her own joiner should make it, and        
she would provide a place for me to sail in. The fellow was an              
ingenious workman, and by my instructions in ten days finished a            
pleasure boat with all its tackling, able conveniently to hold eight        
Europeans. When it was finished, the Queen was so delighted, that           
she ran with it in her lap to the King, who ordered it to be put in         
a cistern full of water, with me in it, by way of trial; where I could      
not manage my two sculls, or little oars, for want of room. But the         
Queen had before contrived another project. She ordered the joiner          
to make a wooden trough of three hundred feet long, fifty broad, and        
eight deep; which being well pitched to prevent leaking, was placed on      
the floor along the wall, in an outer room of the palace. It had a          
cock near the bottom to let out the water when it began to grow stale,      
and two servants could easily fill it in half an hour. Here I often         
used to row for my own diversion, as well as that of the Queen and her      
ladies, who thought themselves well entertained with my skill and           
agility. Sometimes I would put up my sail, and then my business was         
only to steer, while the ladies gave me a gale with their fans; and         
when they were weary, some of the pages would blow my sail forward          
with their breath, while I showed my art steering starboard or              
larboard as I pleased. When I had done, Glumdalclitch always carried        
my boat into her closet, and hung it on a nail to dry.                      
  In this exercise I once met an accident which had like to have            
cost me my life. For one of the pages having put my boat into the           
trough, the governess who attended Glumdalclitch very officiously           
lifted me up to place me in the boat, but I happened to slip through        
her fingers, and should have infallibly fallen down forty feet upon         
the floor, if by the luckiest chance in the world, I had not been           
stopped by a corking-pin that stuck in the good gentlewoman's               
stomacher; the head of the pin passed between my shirt and the              
waistband of my breeches, and thus I was held by the middle in the air      
till Glumdalclitch ran to my relief.                                        
                                                    {P_2|CH_5 ^paragraph 10}
  Another time, one of the servants, whose office it was to fill my         
trough every third day with fresh water, was so careless to let a huge      
frog (not perceiving it) slip out of his pail. The frog lay                 
concealed till I was put into my boat, but then seeking a resting           
place, climbed up, and made it lean so much on one side, that I was         
forced to balance it with all my weight on the other, to prevent            
overturning. When the frog got in, it hopped at once half the length        
of the boat, and then over my head, backwards and forwards, daubing my      
face and clothes with its odious slime. The largeness of its                
features made it appear the most deformed animal that can be                
conceived. However, I desired Glumdaclitch to let me deal with it           
alone. I banged it a good while with one of my sculls, and at last          
forced it to leap out of the boat.                                          
  But the greatest danger I ever underwent in that kingdom was from         
a monkey, who belonged to one of the clerks of the kitchen.                 
Glumdalclitch had locked me up in her closet, while she went somewhere      
upon business or a visit. The weather being very warm, the closet           
window was left open, as well as the windows and the door of my bigger      
box, in which I usually lived, because of its largeness and                 
conveniency. As I sat quietly meditating at my table, I heard               
something bounce in at the closet window, and skip about from one side      
to the other; whereat, although I was much alarmed, yet I ventured          
to look out, but stirred not from my seat; and then I saw this              
frolicsome animal, frisking and leaping up and down, till at last he        
came to my box, which he seemed to view with great pleasure and             
curiosity, peeping in at the door and every window. I retreated to the      
farther corner of my room, or box, but the monkey looking in at             
every side, put me into such a fright, that I wanted presence of            
mind to conceal myself under the bed, as I might easily have done.          
After some time spent in peeping, grinning, and chattering, he at last      
espied me, and reaching one of his paws in at the door, as a cat            
does when she plays with a mouse, although I often shifted place to         
avoid him, he at length seized the lappet of my coat (which being made      
of that country cloth, was very thick and strong) and dragged me            
out. He took me up in his right forefoot, and held me as a nurse            
does a child she is going to suckle, just as I have seen the same sort      
of creature do with a kitten in Europe: and when I offered to               
struggle, he squeezed me so hard, that I thought it more prudent to         
submit. I have good to believe that he took me for a young one of           
his own species, by his often stroking my face very gently with his         
other paw. In these diversions he was interrupted by a noise at the         
closet door, as if somebody were opening it; whereupon he suddenly          
leaped up to the window at which he had come in, and thence upon the        
leads and gutters, walking upon three legs, and holding me in the           
fourth, till he clambered up to a roof that was next to ours. I             
heard Glumdalclitch give a shriek at the moment he was carrying me          
out. The poor girl was almost distracted: that quarter of the palace        
was all in an uproar; the servants ran for ladders; the monkey was          
seen by hundreds in the court, sitting upon the ridge of a building,        
holding me like a baby in one of his fore-paws, and feeding me with         
the other, by cramming into my mouth some victuals he had squeezed out      
of the bag on one side of his chaps, and patting me when I would not        
eat; whereat many of the rabble below could not forbear laughing;           
neither do I think they justly ought to be blamed, for without              
question the sight was ridiculous enough to everybody but myself. Some      
of the people threw up stones, hoping to drive the monkey down; but         
this was strictly forbidden, or else very probably my brains had            
been dashed out.                                                            
  The ladders were now applied, and mounted by several men, which           
the monkey observing, and finding himself almost encompassed, not           
being able to make speed enough with his three legs, let me drop on         
a ridge tile, and made his escape. Here I sat for some time three           
hundred yards from the ground, expecting every moment to be blown down      
by the wind, or to fall by my own giddiness, and come tumbling over         
and over from the ridge to the eaves; but an honest lad, one of my          
nurse's footmen, climbed up, and putting me into his breeches               
pocket, brought me down safe.                                               
  I was almost choked with the filthy stuff the monkey had crammed          
down my throat: but my dear little nurse picked it out of my mouth          
with a small needle, and then I fell to vomiting, which gave me             
great relief. Yet I was so weak and bruised in the sides with the           
squeezes given me by this odious animal, that I was forced to keep          
my bed a fortnight. The King, Queen, and all the court, sent every day      
to inquire after my health, and her Majesty made me several visits          
during my sickness. The monkey was killed, and an order made that no        
such animal should be kept about the palace.                                
  When I attended the King after my recovery, to return him thanks for      
his favors, he was pleased to rally me a good deal upon this                
adventure. He asked me what my thoughts and speculations were while         
I lay in the monkey's paw, how I liked the victuals he gave me, his         
manner of feeding, and whether the fresh air on the roof had sharpened      
my stomach. He desired to know what I would have done upon such an          
occasion my own country. I told his Majesty that in Europe we had no        
monkeys, except such as were brought for curiosities from other             
places, and so small that I could deal with a dozen of them                 
together, if they presumed to attack me. And as for that monstrous          
animal with whom I was so lately engaged (it was indeed as large as an      
elephant), if my fears had suffered me to think so far as to make           
use of my hanger (looking fiercely and clapping my hand upon the            
hilt as I spoke) when he poked his paw into my chamber, perhaps I           
should have given him such a wound, as would have made him glad to          
withdraw it with more haste than he put it in. This I delivered in a        
firm tone, like a person who was jealous lest his courage should be         
called in question. However, my speech produced nothing else besides a      
loud laughter, which all the respect due to his Majesty from those          
about him could not make them contain. This made me reflect how vain        
an attempt it is for a man to endeavor doing himself honor among those      
who are out of all degree of equality or comparison with him. And           
yet I have seen the moral of my own behavior very frequent in               
England since my return, where a little contemptible varlet, without        
the least title to birth, person, wit, or common sense, shall               
presume to look with importance, and put himself upon a foot with           
the greatest persons of the kingdom.                                        
                                                    {P_2|CH_5 ^paragraph 15}
  I was every day furnishing the court with some ridiculous story; and      
Glumdalclitch, although she loved me to excess, yet was arch enough to      
inform the Queen, whenever I committed any folly that she thought           
would be diverting to her Majesty. The girl, who had been out of            
order, was carried by her governess to take the air about an hour's         
distance, or thirty miles from town. They alighted out of the coach         
near a small footpath in a field, and Glumdalclitch setting down my         
traveling box, I went out of it to walk. There was a cow dung in the        
path, and I must needs try my activity by attempting to leap over           
it. I took a run, but unfortunately jumped short, and found myself          
just in the middle up to my knees. I waded through with some                
difficulty, and one of the footmen wiped me as clean as he could            
with his handkerchief; for I was filthily bemired, and my nurse             
confined me to my box till we returned home; where the Queen was            
soon informed of what had passed, and the footmen spread it about           
the court, so that all the mirth, for some days, was at my expense.         
                                                                            
P_2|CH_6                                                                    
  CHAPTER VI                                                                
-                                                                           
  I used to attend the King's levee once or twice a week, and had           
often seen him under the barber's hand, which indeed was at first very      
terrible to behold; for the razor was almost twice as long as an            
ordinary scythe. His Majesty, according to the custom of the                
country, was only shaved twice a week. I once prevailed on the              
barber to give me some of the suds or lather, out of which I picked         
forty or fifty of the strongest stumps of hair. I then took a piece of      
fine wood, and cut it like the back of a comb, making several holes in      
it at equal distance with as small a needle as I could get from             
Glumdalclitch. I fixed in the stumps so artificially, scraping and          
sloping them with my knife toward the points, that I made a very            
tolerable comb; which was a seasonable supply, my own being so much         
broken in the teeth, that it was almost useless: neither did I know         
any artist in that country so nice and exact, as would undertake to         
make me another.                                                            
  And this puts me in mind of an amusement wherein I spent many of          
my leisure hours. I desired the Queen's woman to save for me the            
combings of her Majesty's hair, whereof in time I got a good quantity,      
and consulting with my friend the cabinet-maker, who had received           
general orders to do little jobs for me, I directed him to make two         
chair frames, no larger than those I had in my box, and then to bore        
little holes with a fine awl round those parts where I designed the         
backs and seats; through these holes I wove the strongest hairs I           
could pick out, just after the manner of cane chairs in England.            
When they were finished, I made a present of them to her Majesty,           
who kept them in her cabinet, and used to show them for curiosities,        
as indeed they were the wonder of every one that beheld them. The           
Queen would have had me sit upon one of these chairs, but I absolutely      
refused to obey her, protesting I would rather die a thousand deaths        
than place a dishonorable part of my body on those precious hairs that      
once adorned her Majesty's head. Of these hairs (as I had always a          
mechanical genius) I likewise made a neat little purse about five feet      
long, with her Majesty's name deciphered in gold letters, which I gave      
to Glumdalclitch, by the Queen's consent. To say the truth, it was          
more for show than use, being not of strength to bear the weight of         
the larger coins, and therefore she kept nothing in it but some little      
toys that girls are fond of.                                                
  The King, who delighted in music, had frequent concerts at court, to      
which I was sometimes carried, and set in my box on a table to hear         
them; but the noise was so great, that I could hardly distinguish           
the tunes. I am confident that all the drums and trumpets of a royal        
army, beating and sounding together just at your ears, could not equal      
it. My practice was to have my box removed from the places where the        
performers sat, as far as I could, then to shut the doors and               
windows of it, and draw the window curtains; after which I found their      
music not disagreeable.                                                     
  I had learned in my youth to play a little upon the spinet                
Glumdaclitch kept one in her chamber, and a master attended twice a         
week to teach her: I call it a spinet, because it somewhat resembled        
that instrument. and was played upon in the same manner. A fancy            
came into my head that I would entertain the King and Queen with an         
English tune upon this instrument. But this appeared extremely              
difficult; for the spinet was near sixty feet long, each key being          
almost a foot wide, so that, with my arms extended, I could not             
reach to above five keys, and to press them down required a good smart      
stroke with my fist, which would be too great a labor, and to no            
purpose. The method I contrived was this. I prepared two round              
sticks about the bigness of common cudgels; they were thicker at one        
end than the other, and I covered the thicker ends with a piece of a        
mouse's skin, that by rapping on them I might neither damage the            
tops of the keys, nor interrupt the sound. Before the spinet a bench        
was placed, about four feet below the keys, and I was put upon the          
bench. I ran sideling upon it that way and this, as fast as I could,        
banging the proper keys with my two sticks, and made a shift to play a      
jig, to the great satisfaction of both their Majesties: but it was the      
most violent exercise I ever underwent, and yet I could not strike          
above sixteen keys, nor, consequently, play the bass and treble             
together, as other artists do; which was a great disadvantage to my         
performance.                                                                
  The King, who, as I before observed, was a prince of excellent            
understanding, would frequently order that I should be brought in my        
box, and set upon the table in his closet. He would then command me to      
bring one of my chairs out of the box, and sit down within three yards      
distance upon the top of the cabinet, which brought me almost to a          
level with his face. In this manner I had several conversations with        
him. I one day took the freedom to tell his Majesty, that the contempt      
he discovered towards Europe, and the rest of the world, did not            
seem answerable to those excellent qualities of the mind he was master      
of. That reason did not extend itself with the bulk of the body: on         
the contrary, we observed in our country that the tallest persons were      
usually least provided with it. That among other animals, bees and          
ants had the reputation of more industry, art and sagacity, than            
many of the larger kinds. And that, as inconsiderable as he took me to      
be, I hoped I might live to do his Majesty some signal service. The         
King heard me with attention, and began to conceive a much better           
opinion of me than he had ever before. He desired I would give him          
as exact an account of the government of England as I possibly              
could; because, as fond as princes commonly are of their own customs        
(for so he conjectured of other monarchs, by my former discourses), he      
should be glad to hear of anything that might deserve imitation.            
                                                     {P_2|CH_6 ^paragraph 5}
  Imagine with thyself, courteous reader, how often I then wished           
for the tongue of Demosthenes or Cicero, that might have enabled me to      
celebrate the praise of my own dear native country in a style equal to      
its merits and felicity.                                                    
  I began my discourse by informing his Majesty that our dominions          
consisted of two islands, which composed three mighty kingdoms under        
one sovereign, beside our plantations in America. I dwelt long upon         
the fertility of our soil, and the temperature of our climate. I            
then spoke at large upon the constitution of an English Parliament,         
partly made up of an illustrious body called the House of Peers,            
persons of the noblest blood, and of the most ancient and ample             
patrimonies. I described that extraordinary care always taken of their      
education in arts and arms, to qualify them for being counselors            
born to the king and kingdom, to have a share in the legislature, to        
be members of the highest Court of Judicature, from whence there could      
be no appeal, and to be champions always ready for the defense of           
their prince and country, by their valor, conduct, and fidelity.            
That these were the ornament and bulwark of the kingdom, worthy             
followers of their most renowned ancestors, whose honor had been the        
reward of their virtue, from which their posterity were never once          
known to degenerate. To these we joined several holy persons, as            
part of that assembly, under the title of Bishops, whose peculiar           
business it is to take care of religion, and of those who instruct the      
people therein. These were searched and sought out through the whole        
nation, by the prince and his wisest counselors, among such of the          
priesthood as were most deservedly distinguished by the sanctity of         
their lives, and the depth of their erudition; who were indeed the          
spiritual fathers of the clergy and the people.                             
  That the other part of the Parliament consisted of an assembly            
called the House of Commons, who were all principal gentlemen,              
freely picked and culled out by the people themselves, for their great      
abilities and love of their country, to represent the wisdom of the         
whole nation. And these two bodies make up the most august assembly in      
Europe, to whom, in conjunction with the prince, the whole legislature      
is committed.                                                               
  I then descended to the Courts of justice, over which the judges,         
those venerable sages and interpreters of the law, presided, for            
determining the disputed rights and properties of men, as well as           
for the punishment of vice, and protection of innocence. I mentioned        
the prudent management of our treasury; the valor and achievements          
of our forces by sea and land. I computed the number of our people, by      
reckoning how many millions there might be of each religious sect,          
or political party among us. I did not omit even our sports and             
pastimes, or any other particular which I thought might redound to the      
honor of my country. And I finished all with a brief historical             
account of affairs and events in England for about a hundred years          
past.                                                                       
  This conversation was not ended under five audiences, each of             
several hours, and the King heard the whole with great attention,           
frequently taking notes of what I spoke, as well as memorandums of          
several questions he intended to ask me.                                    
                                                    {P_2|CH_6 ^paragraph 10}
  When I had put an end to these long discourses, his Majesty in a          
sixth audience, consulting his notes, proposed many doubts, queries,        
and objections, upon every article. He asked what methods were used to      
cultivate the minds and bodies of our young nobility, and in what kind      
of business they commonly spent the first and teachable part of             
their lives. What course was taken to supply that assembly when any         
noble family became extinct. What qualifications were in those who          
were to be created new lords. Whether the humor of the prince, a sum        
of money to a court lady, or a prime minister, or a design of               
strengthening a party opposite to the public interest, ever happened        
to be motives in those advancements. What share of knowledge these          
lords had in the laws of their country, and how they came by it, so as      
to enable them to decide the properties of their fellow-subjects in         
the last resort. Whether they were always so free from avarice,             
partialities, or want, that a bribe, or some other sinister view,           
could have no place among them. Whether those holy lords I spoke of         
were always promoted to that rank upon account of their knowledge in        
religious matters, and the sanctity of their lives, had never been          
compliers with the times while they were common priests, or slavish         
prostitute chaplains to some nobleman, whose opinions they continued        
servilely to follow after they were admitted into that assembly.            
  He then desired to know what arts were practiced in electing those        
whom I commoners: whether a stranger with a strong purse might not          
influence the vulgar voters to choose him before their own landlord,        
or the most considerable gentleman in the neighborhood. How it came to      
pass, that people were so violently bent upon getting into this             
assembly, which I allowed to be a great trouble and expense, often          
to the ruin of their families, without any salary or pension:               
because this appeared such an exalted strain of virtue and public           
spirit, that his Majesty seemed to doubt it might possibly not be           
always sincere: and he desired to know whether such zealous                 
gentlemen could have any views of refunding themselves for the charges      
and trouble they were at, by sacrificing the public good to the             
designs of a weak and vicious prince in conjunction with a corrupted        
ministry. He multiplied his questions and sifted me thoroughly upon         
every part of this head, proposing numberless inquiries and                 
objections, which I think it not prudent or convenient to repeat.           
  Upon what I said in relation to our Courts of Justice, his Majesty        
desired to be satisfied in several points: and this I was the better        
able to do, having been formerly almost ruined by a long suit in            
chancery, which was decreed for me with costs. He asked, what time was      
usually spent in determining between right and wrong, and what              
degree of expense. Whether advocates and orators had liberty to             
plead in causes manifestly known to be unjust, vexatious, or                
oppressive. Whether party in religion or politics were observed to          
be of any weight in the scale of justice. Whether those pleading            
orators were persons educated in the general knowledge of equity, or        
only in provincial, national, and other local customs. Whether they or      
their judges had any part in penning those laws which they assumed the      
liberty of interpreting and glossing upon at their pleasure. Whether        
they had ever at different times pleaded for and against the same           
cause, and cited precedents to prove contrary opinions. Whether they        
were a rich or a poor corporation. Whether they received any pecuniary      
reward for pleading or delivering their opinions. And particularly          
whether they were ever admitted as members in the lower senate.             
  He fell next upon the management of our treasury; and said he             
thought my memory had failed me, because I computed our taxes at about      
five or six millions a year, and when I came to mention the issues, he      
found they sometimes amounted to more than double; for the notes he         
had taken were very particular in this point, because he hoped, as          
he told me, that the knowledge of our conduct might be useful to            
him, and he could not be deceived in his calculations. But, if what         
I told him were true, he was still at a loss how a kingdom could run        
out of its estate like a private person. He asked me, who were our          
creditors; and where we should find money to pay them. He wondered          
to hear me talk of such chargeable and extensive wars; that                 
certainly we must be a quarrelsome people, or live among very bad           
neighbors, and that our generals must needs be richer than our              
kings. He asked what business we had out of our own islands, unless         
upon the score of trade or treaty, or to defend the coasts with our         
fleet. About all, he was amazed to hear me talk of a mercenary              
standing army in the midst of peace, and among a free people. He said,      
if we were governed by our own consent in the persons of our                
representatives, he could not imagine of whom we were afraid, or            
against whom we were to fight; and would hear my opinion, whether a         
private man's house might not better be defended by himself, his            
children, and family, than by half a dozen rascals picked up at a           
venture in the streets, for small wages, who might get a hundred times      
more by cutting their throats.                                              
  He laughed at my odd kind of arithmetic (as he was pleased to call        
it) in reckoning the numbers of our people by a computation drawn from      
the several sects among us in religion and politics. He said, he            
knew no reason, why those who entertain opinions prejudicial to the         
public, should be obliged to change, or should not be obliged to            
conceal them. And as it was tyranny in any government to require the        
first, so it was weakness not to enforce the second: for a man may          
be allowed to keep poisons in his closet, but not to vend them about        
for cordials.                                                               
                                                    {P_2|CH_6 ^paragraph 15}
  He observed that among the diversions of our nobility and gentry I        
had mentioned gaming. He desired to know at what age this                   
entertainment was usually taken up, and when it was laid down; how          
much of their time it employed; whether it ever went so high as to          
affect their fortunes; whether mean vicious people, by their dexterity      
in that art, might not arrive at great riches, and sometimes keep           
our very nobles in dependence, as well as habituate them to vile            
companions, wholly take them from the improvement of their minds,           
and force them, by the losses they have received, to learn and              
practice that infamous dexterity upon others.                               
  He was perfectly astonished with the historical account I gave him        
of our affairs during the last century, protesting it was only a            
heap of conspiracies, rebellions, murders, massacres, revolutions,          
banishments, the very worst effects that avarice, faction,                  
hypocrisy, perfidiousness, cruelty, rage, madness, hatred, envy, lust,      
malice, or ambition could produce.                                          
  His Majesty in another audience was at the pains to recapitulate the      
sum of all I had spoken, compared the questions he made with the            
answers I had given, then taking me into his hands, and stroking me         
gently, delivered himself in these words, which I shall never forget        
nor the manner he spoke them in: My little friend Grildrig, you have        
made a most admirable panegyric upon your country; you have clearly         
proved that ignorance, idleness, and vice, may be sometimes the only        
ingredients for qualifying a legislator; that laws are best explained,      
interpreted, and applied by those whose interest and abilities lie          
in perverting, confounding, and eluding them. I observe among you some      
lines of an institution, which in its original might have been              
tolerable, but these half erased, and the rest wholly blurred and           
blotted by corruptions. It does not appear from all you have said, how      
any one virtue is required towards the procurement of any one               
station among you; much less that men are ennobled on account of their      
virtue, that priests are advanced for their piety or learning,              
soldiers for their conduct or valor, judges for their integrity,            
senators for the love of their country, or counsellors for their            
wisdom. As for yourself (continued the King) who have spent the             
greatest part of your life in traveling, I am well disposed to hope         
you may hitherto have escaped many vices of your country. But by            
what I have gathered from your own relation, and the answers I have         
with much pains wringed and extorted from you, I cannot but conclude        
the bulk of your natives to be the most pernicious race of little           
odious vermin that nature ever suffered to crawl upon the surface of        
the earth.                                                                  
                                                                            
P_2|CH_7                                                                    
  CHAPTER VII                                                               
-                                                                           
  Nothing but an extreme love of truth could have hindered me from          
concealing this part of my story. It was in vain to discover my             
resentments, which were always turned into ridicule; and I was              
forced to rest with patience while my noble and most beloved country        
was so injuriously treated. I am heartily sorry as any of my readers        
can possibly be, that such an occasion was given: but this prince           
happened to be so curious and inquisitive upon every particular,            
that it could not consist either with gratitude or good manners to          
refuse giving him what satisfaction I was able. Yet thus much I may be      
allowed to say in my own vindication, that I artfully eluded many of        
his questions, and gave to every point a more favorable turn by many        
degrees than the strictness of truth would allow. For I have always         
borne that laudable partiality to my own country, which Dionysius           
Halicarnassensis with so much justice recommends to a historian. I          
would hide the frailties and deformities of my political mother, and        
place her virtues and beauties in the most advantageous light. This         
was my sincere endeavor in those many discourses I had with that            
mighty monarch, although it unfortunately failed of success.                
  But great allowances should be given to a King who lives wholly           
secluded from the rest of the world, and must therefore be                  
altogether unacquainted with the manners and customs that most prevail      
in other nations; the want of which knowledge will ever produce many        
prejudices, and a certain narrowness of thinking, from which we and         
the politer countries of Europe are wholly exempted. And it would be        
hard indeed, if so remote a prince's notions of virtue and vice were        
to be offered as a standard for all mankind.                                
  To confirm what I have now said, and further, to show the                 
miserable effects of a confined education, I shall here insert a            
passage which will hardly obtain belief. In hopes to ingratiate myself      
farther into his Majesty's favor, I told him of an invention                
discovered between three and four hundred years ago, to make a certain      
powder, into a heap of which the smallest spark of fire falling, would      
kindle the whole in a moment, although it were as big as a mountain,        
and make it all fly up in the air together, with a noise and agitation      
greater than thunder. That a proper quantity of this powder rammed          
into a hollow tube of brass or iron, according to its bigness, would        
drive a ball of iron or lead with such violence and speed, as               
nothing was able to sustain its force. the largest balls thus               
discharged, would not only destroy whole ranks of an army at once, but      
batter the strongest walls to the ground, sink down ships, with a           
thousand men in each, to the bottom of the sea; and, when linked            
together by a chain, would cut through masts and rigging, divide            
hundreds of bodies in the middle, and lay all waste before them.            
That we often put this powder into large hollow balls of iron, and          
discharged them by an engine into some city we were besieging, which        
would rip up the pavements, tear the houses to pieces, burst and throw      
splinters on every side, dashing out the brains of all who came             
near. That I knew the ingredients very well, which were cheap, and          
common; I understood the manner of compounding them, and could              
direct his workmen how to make those tubes of a size proportionable to      
all other things in his Majesty's kingdom, and the largest need not be      
above a hundred feet long; twenty or thirty of which tubes, charged         
with the proper quantity of powder and balls, would batter down the         
walls of the strongest town in his dominions in a few hours, or             
destroy the whole metropolis, if ever it should pretend to dispute his      
absolute commands. This I humbly offered to his Majesty, as a small         
tribute of acknowledgment in return of so many marks that I had             
received of his royal favor and protection.                                 
  The King was struck with horror at the description I had given of         
those terrible engines, and the proposal I had made. He was amazed how      
so impotent and grovelling an insect as I (these were his expressions)      
could entertain such inhuman ideas, and in so familiar a manner as          
to appear wholly unmoved at all the scenes of blood and desolation,         
which I had painted as the common effects of those destructive              
machines, whereof he said some evil genius, enemy to mankind, must          
have been the first contriver. As for himself, he protested that            
although few things delighted him so much as new discoveries in art or      
in nature, yet he would rather lose half his kingdom than be privy          
to such a secret, which he commanded me, as I valued my life, never to      
mention any more.                                                           
  A strange effect of narrow principles and short views that a              
prince possessed of every quality which procures veneration, love, and      
esteem; of strong parts, great wisdom, and profound learning, endued        
with admirable talents for government, and almost adored by his             
subjects, should from a nice unnecessary scruple, whereof in Europe we      
can have no conception, let slip an opportunity to put into his hands,      
that would have made him absolute master of the lives, the                  
liberties, and the fortunes of his people. Neither do I say this            
with the least intention to detract from the many virtues of that           
excellent King, whose character I am sensible will on this account          
be very much lessened in the opinion of an English reader: but I            
take this defect among them to have risen from their ignorance, they        
not having hitherto reduced politics into a science, as the more acute      
wits of Europe have done. For I remember very well, in a discourse one      
day with the King, when I happened to say there were several                
thousand books among us written upon the art of government, it gave         
him (directly contrary to my intention) a very mean opinion of our          
understandings. He professed both to abominate and despise all              
mystery, refinement, and intrigue, either in a prince or a minister.        
He could not tell what I meant secrets of state, where an enemy or          
some rival nation were not in the case. He confined the knowledge of        
governing within very narrow bounds; to common sense and reason, to         
justice and lenity, to the speedy determination of civil and                
criminal causes; with some other obvious topics, which are not worth        
considering. And he gave it for his opinion, that whoever could make        
two ears of corn or two blades of grass to grow upon a spot of              
ground where only one grew before, would deserve better of mankind,         
and do more essential service to his country than the whole race of         
politicians put together.                                                   
                                                     {P_2|CH_7 ^paragraph 5}
  The learning of this people is very defective, consisting only in         
morality, history, poetry, and mathematics, wherein they must be            
allowed to excel. But the last of these is wholly applied to what           
may be useful in life, to the improvement of agriculture, and all           
mechanical arts; so that among us it would be little esteemed. And          
as to ideas, entities, abstractions, and transcendentals, I could           
never drive the least conception into their heads.                          
  No law of that country must exceed in words the number of letters in      
their alphabet, which consists only of twenty-two. But indeed few of        
them extend even to that length. They are expressed in the most             
plain and simple terms, wherein those people are not mercurial              
enough to discover above one interpretation; and to write a comment         
upon any law is a capital crime. As to the decision of civil causes,        
or proceedings against criminals, their precedents are so few, that         
they have little reason to boast of any extraordinary skill in either.      
  They have had the art of printing, as well as the Chinese, time           
out of mind. But their libraries are not very large; for that of the        
King's which is reckoned the biggest, does not amount to above a            
thousand volumes, placed in a gallery twelve hundred feet long, from        
which I had liberty to borrow what books I pleased. The Queen's joiner      
had contrived in one of Glumdalclitch's rooms a kind of wooden machine      
twenty-five feet high, formed like a standing ladder; the steps were        
each fifty feet long. It was indeed a moveable pair of stairs, the          
lowest end placed at ten feet distance from the wall of the chamber.        
The book I had a mind to read was put up leaning against the wall. I        
first mounted to the upper step of the ladder, and turning my face          
towards the book, began at the top of the page, and so walking to           
the right and left about eight or ten yards, according to the length        
of the lines, till I had gotten a little below the level of my eyes,        
and then descending gradually till I came to the bottom; after which I      
mounted again and began the other page in the same manner, and so           
turned over the leaf, which I could easily do with both my hands,           
for it was as thick and stiff as pasteboard, and in the largest folios      
not above eighteen or twenty feet long.                                     
  Their style is clear, masculine, and smooth, but not florid, for          
they avoid nothing more than multiplying unnecessary words, or using        
various expressions. I have perused many of their books, especially         
those in history and morality. Among the rest, I was much diverted          
with a little old treatise, which always lay in Glumdalclitch's bed         
chamber, and belonged to her governess, a grave elderly gentlewoman,        
who dealt in writings of morality and devotion. The book treats of the      
weakness of human kind, and is in little esteem, except among the           
women and the vulgar. However, I was curious to see what an author          
of that country could say upon such a subject. This writer went             
through all the usual topics of European showing how diminutive,            
contemptible, and helpless an animal was man in his own nature; how         
unable to defend himself from the inclemencies of the air, or the fury      
of wild beasts; how much he was excelled by one creature in                 
strength, by another in speed, by a third in foresight, by a fourth in      
industry. He added, that nature was degenerated in these latter             
declining ages of the world, and could now produce only small abortive      
births in comparison of those in ancient times. He said, it was very        
reasonable to think, not only that the species of men were                  
originally much larger, but also, that there must have been giants          
in former ages, which, as it is asserted by history and tradition,          
so it has been confirmed by huge bones and skulls casually dug up in        
several parts of the Kingdom, far exceeding the common dwindled race        
of man in our days. He argued, that the very laws of nature absolutely      
required we should have been made in the beginning, of a size more          
large and robust, not so liable to destruction from every little            
accident of a tile falling from a house, or a stone cast from the hand      
of a boy, or of being drowned in a little brook. From this way of           
reasoning the author drew several moral applications useful in the          
conduct of life, but needless here to repeat. For my own part, I could      
not avoid reflecting how universally this talent was spread, of             
drawing lectures in morality, or indeed rather matter of discontent         
and repining, from the quarrels we raise with nature. And I believe,        
upon a strict inquiry, those quarrels might be shown as ill-grounded        
among us as they are among that people.                                     
  As to their military affairs, they boast that the King's army             
consists of a hundred and seventy-six thousand foot, and thirty-two         
thousand horse: if that may be called an army which is made up of           
tradesmen in the several cities, and farmers in the country, whose          
commanders are only the nobility and gentry, without pay or reward.         
They are indeed perfect enough in their exercises, and under very good      
discipline, wherein I saw no great merit; for how should it be              
otherwise, where every farmer is under the command of his own               
landlord, and every citizen under that of the principal men in his own      
city, chosen after the manner of Venice by ballot?                          
                                                    {P_2|CH_7 ^paragraph 10}
  I have often seen the militia of Lorbrulgrud drawn out to exercise        
in a great field near the city of twenty miles square. They were in         
all not above twenty-five thousand foot, and six thousand horse; but        
it was impossible for me to compute their number, considering the           
space of ground they took up. A cavalier mounted on a large steed,          
might be about a hundred feet high. I have seen this whole body of          
horse, upon a word of command, draw their swords at once, and brandish      
them in the air. Imagination can figure nothing so grand, so                
surprising, and so astonishing. It looked as if ten thousand flashes        
of lightning were darting at the same time from every quarter of the        
sky.                                                                        
  I was curious to know how this prince, to whose dominions there is        
no access from any other country, came to think of armies, or to teach      
his people the practice of military discipline. But I was soon              
informed, both by conversation and reading their histories. For in the      
course of many ages they have been troubled with the same disease to        
which the whole race of mankind is subject; the nobility often              
contending for power, the people for liberty, and the King for              
absolute dominion. All which, however happily tempered by the laws          
of the kingdom, have been sometimes violated by each of the three           
parties, and have once or more occasioned civil wars, the last whereof      
was happily put an end to by this prince's grandfather by a general         
composition; and the militia, then settled with common consent, has         
been ever since kept in the strictest duty.                                 
                                                                            
P_2|CH_8                                                                    
  CHAPTER VIII                                                              
-                                                                           
  I had always a strong impulse that I should some time recover my          
liberty, though it was impossible to conjecture by what means, or to        
form any project with the least hope of succeeding. The ship in             
which I sailed was the first ever known to be driven within sight of        
that coast, and the King had given strict orders, that if at any            
time another appeared, it should be taken ashore, and with all its          
crew and passengers brought in a tumbril to Lorbrulgrud. He was             
strongly bent to get me a woman of my own size, by whom I might             
propagate the breed: but I think I should rather have died than             
undergone the disgrace of leaving a posterity to be kept in cages like      
tame canary birds, and perhaps, in time, sold about the kingdom to          
persons of quality for curiosities. I was, indeed, treated with much        
kindness; I was the favorite of a great King and Queen, and the             
delight of the whole court, but it was upon such a foot as ill              
became the dignity of human kind. I could never forget those                
domestic pledges I had left behind me. I wanted to be among people          
with whom I could converse upon even terms, and walk about the streets      
and fields without fear of being trod to death like a frog or a             
young puppy. But my deliverance came sooner than I expected, and in         
a manner not very common; the whole story and circumstances of which I      
shall faithfully relate.                                                    
  I had now been two years in this country; and about the beginning of      
the third, Glumdalclitch and I attended the King and Queen in a             
progress to the coast of the kingdom. I was carried, as usual, in my        
traveling box, which, as I have already described, was a very               
convenient closet of twelve feet wide. And I had ordered a hammock          
to be fixed by silken ropes from the four corners at the top, to break      
the jolts, when a servant carried me before him on horseback, as I          
sometimes desired, and would often sleep in my hammock while we were        
upon the road. On the roof of my closet, just over the middle of the        
hammock, I ordered the joiner to cut out a hole a foot square, to give      
me air in hot weather as I slept, which hole I shut at pleasure with a      
board that drew backwards and forwards through a groove.                    
  When we came to our journey's end, the King thought proper to pass a      
few days at a palace he has near Flanflasnic, a city within eighteen        
English miles of the seaside. Glumdalclitch and I were much                 
fatigued; I had gotten a small cold, but the poor girl was so ill as        
to be confined to her chamber. I longed to see the ocean, which must        
be the only scene of my escape, if ever it should happen. I                 
pretended to be worse than I really was, and desired leave to take the      
fresh air of the sea, with a page whom I was very fond of, and who had      
sometimes been trusted with me. I shall never forget with what              
unwillingness Glumdalclitch consented, nor the strict charge she            
gave the page to be careful of me, bursting at the same time into a         
flood of tears, as if she had some foreboding of what was to happen.        
The boy took me out in my box about half an hour's walk from the            
palace, towards the rocks on the seashore. I ordered him to set me          
down, and lifting up one of my sashes, cast many a wistful                  
melancholy look towards the sea. I found myself not very well, and          
told the page that I had a mind to take a nap in my hammock, which I        
hoped would do me good. I got in, and the boy shut the window close         
down to keep out the cold. I soon fell asleep, and all I can                
conjecture is, that while I slept, the page, thinking no danger             
could happen, went among the rocks to look for birds' eggs, having          
before observed him from my window searching about, and picking up one      
or two in the clefts. Be that as it will, I found myself suddenly           
awaked with a violent pull upon the ring which was fastened at the top      
of my box for the conveniency of carriage. I felt my box raised very        
high in the air, and then borne forward with prodigious speed. The          
first jolt had like to have shaken me out of my hammock, but                
afterwards the motion was easy enough. I called out several times as        
loud as I could raise my voice, but all to no purpose. I looked             
towards my windows and could see nothing but the clouds and sky. I          
heard a noise just over my head like the clapping of wings, and then        
began to perceive the woeful condition I was in; that some eagle had        
got the ring of my box in his beak, with an intent to let it fall on a      
rock like a tortoise in a shell, and then pick out my body, and devour      
it. For the sagacity and smell of this bird enable him to discover his      
quarry at a great distance, though better concealed than I could be         
within a two-inch board.                                                    
  In a little time I observed the noise of flutter of wings to              
increase very fast, and my box was tossed up and down, like a sign          
post on a windy day. I heard several bangs or buffets, as I thought,        
given to the eagle (for such I am certain it must have been that            
held the ring of my box in his beak), and then all of a sudden felt         
myself falling perpendicularly down for above a minute, but with            
such incredible swiftness that I almost lost my breath. My fall was         
stopped by a terrible squash, that sounded louder to my ears than           
the cataract of Niagara; after which I was quite in the dark for            
another minute, and then my box began to rise so high that I could see      
light from the tops of my windows. I now perceived that I had fallen        
into the sea. My box, by the weight of my body, the goods that were         
in, and the broad plates of iron fixed for strength at the four             
corners of the top and bottom, floated five feet deep in water. I           
did then, and do now, suppose that the eagle which flew away with my        
box was pursued by two or three others, and forced to let me drop           
while he was defending himself against the rest, who hoped to share in      
the prey. The plates of iron fastened at the bottom of the box (for         
those were the strongest) preserved the balance while it fell, and          
hindered it from being broken on the surface of the water. Every joint      
of it was well grooved, and the door did not move on hinges, but up         
and down like a sash, which kept my closet so tight that very little        
water came in. I got with much difficulty out of my hammock, having         
first ventured to draw back the slipboard on the roof already               
mentioned, contrived on purpose to let in air, for want of which I          
found myself almost stifled.                                                
  How often did I then wish myself with my dear Glumdalclitch, from         
whom one single hour had so far divided me! And I may say with              
truth, that in the midst of my own misfortunes I could not forbear          
lamenting my poor nurse, the grief she would suffer for my loss, the        
displeasure of the Queen, and the ruin of her fortune. Perhaps many         
travelers have not been under greater difficulties and distress than I      
was at this juncture, expecting every moment to see my box dashed in        
pieces, or at least overset by the first violent blast, or a rising         
wave. A breach in one single pane of glass would have been immediate        
death: nor could anything have preserved the windows, but the strong        
lattice wires placed on the outside against accidents in traveling.         
I saw the water ooze in at several crannies, although the leaks were        
not considerable, and I endeavored to stop them as well as I could.         
I was not able to lift up the roof of my closet, which otherwise I          
certainly should have done, and sat on the top of it, where I might at      
least preserve myself some hours longer than by being shut up, as I         
may call it, in the hold. Or, if I escaped these dangers for a day          
or two, what could I expect but a miserable death of cold and               
hunger! I was four hours under these circumstances, expecting and           
indeed wishing every moment to be my last.                                  
                                                     {P_2|CH_8 ^paragraph 5}
  I have already told the reader that there were two strong staples         
fixed upon that side of my box which had no window, and into which the      
servant who used to carry me on horseback would put a leathern belt,        
and buckle it about his waist. Being in this disconsolate state, I          
heard or at least thought I beard some kind of grating noise on that        
side of my box where the staples were fixed, and soon after I began to      
fancy that the box was pulled or towed along in the sea; for I now and      
then felt a sort of tugging, which made the waves rise near the tops        
of my windows, leaving me almost in the dark. This gave me some             
faint hopes of relief, although I was not able to imagine how it could      
be brought about. I ventured to unscrew one of my chairs, which were        
always fastened to the floor; and having made a hard shift to screw it      
down again directly under the slipping-board that I had lately opened,      
I mounted on the chair, and putting my mouth as near as I could to the      
hole, I called for help in a loud voice, and in all the languages I         
understood. I then fastened my handkerchief to a stick I usually            
carried, and thrusting it up the hole, waved it several times in the        
air, that if any boat or ship were near, the seamen might conjecture        
some unhappy mortal to be shut up in the box.                               
  I found no effect from all I could do, but plainly perceived my           
closet to be moved along; and in the space of an hour, or better, that      
side of the box where the staples were, and had no window, struck           
against something that was hard. I apprehended it to be a rock, and         
found myself tossed more than ever. I plainly heard a noise upon the        
cover of my closet, like that of a cable, and the grating of it as          
it passed through the ring. I then found myself hoisted up by               
degrees at least three feet higher than I was before. Whereupon I           
again thrust up my stick and handkerchief, calling for help till I was      
almost hoarse. In return to which, I heard a great shout repeated           
three times, giving me such transports of joy, as are not to be             
conceived but by those who feel them. I now heard a trampling over          
my head, and somebody calling through the hole with a loud voice in         
the English tongue: If there be anybody below, let them speak. I            
answered, I was an Englishman, drawn by ill fortune into the                
greatest calamity that ever any creature underwent, and begged, by all      
that is moving, to be delivered out of the dungeon I was in. The voice      
replied, I was safe, for my box was fastened to their ship; and the         
carpenter should immediately come and saw an hole in the cover,             
large enough to pull me out. I answered, that was needless, and             
would take up too much time, for there was no more to be done, but let      
one of the crew put his finger into the ring, and take the box out          
of the sea into the ship, and so into the captain's cabin. Some of          
them upon hearing me talk so wildly thought I was mad; others laughed;      
for indeed it never came into my head that I was now among people of        
my own stature and strength. The carpenter came, and in a few               
minutes sawed a passage about four feet square, then let down a             
small ladder, upon which I mounted, and from thence was taken into the      
ship in a very weak condition.                                              
  The sailors were all in amazement, and asked me a thousand                
questions, which I had no inclination to answer. I was equally              
confounded at the sight of so many pigmies, for such I took them to         
be, after having so long accustomed my eyes to the monstrous objects I      
had left. But the Captain, Mr. Thomas Wilcocks, an honest worthy            
Shropshire man, observing I was ready to faint, took me into his            
cabin, gave me a cordial to comfort me, and made me turn in upon his        
own bed, advising me to take a little rest, of which I had great need.      
Before I went to sleep I gave him to understand that I had some             
valuable furniture in my box, too good to be lost, a fine hammock, a        
handsome field bed, two chairs, a table, and a cabinet; that my closet      
was hung on all sides, or rather quilted, with silk and cotton; that        
if he would let one of the crew bring my closet into his cabin, I           
would open it there before him, and show him my goods. The Captain          
hearing me utter these absurdities, concluded I was raving: however (I      
suppose to pacify me), he promised to give order as I desired, and          
going upon deck sent some of his men down into my closet, from              
whence (as I afterwards found) they drew up all my goods, and stripped      
off the quilting; but the chairs, cabinet, and bedstead, being screwed      
to the floor, were much damaged by the ignorance of the seamen, who         
tore them up by force. Then they knocked off some of the boards for         
the use of the ship, and when they had got all they had a mind for,         
let the hull drop into the sea, which by reason of many breaches            
made in the bottom and sides, sunk to rights. And indeed I was glad         
not to have been a spectator of the havoc they made; because I am           
confident it would have sensibly touched me, by bringing former             
passages into my mind, which I had rather forget.                           
  I slept some hours, but perpetually disturbed with dreams of the          
place I had left, and the dangers I had escaped. However, upon              
waking I found myself much recovered. It was now about eight o'clock        
at night, and the Captain ordered supper immediately, thinking I had        
already fasted too long. He entertained me with great kindness,             
observing me not to look wildly, or talk inconsistently: and when we        
were left alone, desired I would give him a relation of my travels,         
and by what accident I came to be set adrift in that monstrous              
wooden chest. He said, that about twelve o'clock at noon, as he was         
looking through his glass, he spied it at a distance, and thought it        
was a sail, which he had a mind to make, being not much out of his          
course, in hopes of buying some biscuit, his own beginning to fall          
short. That upon coming nearer, and finding his error, he sent out his      
longboat to discover what I was; that his men came back in a fright,        
swearing they had seen a swimming house. That he laughed at their           
folly, and went himself in the boat, ordering his men to take a strong      
cable along with them. That the weather being calm, he rowed round          
me several times, observed my windows, and the wire lattices that           
defended them. That he discovered two staples upon one side, which was      
all of boards, without any passage for light. He then commanded his         
men to row up to that side, and fastening a cable to one of the             
staples, ordered them to tow my chest (as he called it) towards the         
ship. When it was there, he gave directions to fasten another cable to      
the ring fixed in the cover, and to raise up my chest with pulley,          
which all the sailors were not able to do above two or three feet.          
He said they saw my stick and handkerchief thrust out of the hole, and      
concluded that some unhappy men must be shut up in the cavity. I asked      
whether he or the crew had seen any prodigious birds in the air             
about the time he first discovered me. To which he answered, that           
discoursing this matter with the sailors while I was asleep, one of         
them said he had observed three eagles flying towards the north, but        
remarked nothing of their being larger than the usual size, which I         
suppose must be imputed to the great height they were at; and he could      
not guess the reason of my question. I then asked the Captain how           
far he reckoned we might be from land; he said, by the best                 
computation he could make, we were at least a hundred leagues. I            
assured him, that he must be mistaken by almost half, for I had not         
left the country from where I came above two hours before I dropped         
into the sea. Whereupon he began again to think that my brain was           
disturbed, of which he gave me a hint, and advised me to go to bed          
in a cabin he had provided. I assured him I was well refreshed with         
his good entertainment and company, and as much in my senses as ever I      
was in my life. He then grew serious, and desired to ask me freely          
whether I were not troubled in mind by the consciousness of some            
enormous crime, for which I was punished at the command of some             
prince, by exposing me in that chest, as great criminals in other           
countries have been forced to sea in a leaky vessel without                 
provisions; for although he should be sorry to have taken so ill a man      
into his ship, yet he would engage his word to set me safe on shore in      
the first port where we arrived. He added, that his suspicions were         
much increased by some very absurd speeches I had delivered at first        
to the sailors, and afterwards to himself, in relation to my closet or      
chest, as well as by my odd looks and behavior while I was at supper.       
  I begged his patience to hear me tell my story, which I faithfully        
did from the last time I left England to the moment he first                
discovered me. And as truth always forces its way into rational minds,      
so this honest worthy gentleman, who had some tincture of learning,         
and very good sense, was immediately convinced of my candor and             
veracity. But further to confirm all I had said, I entreated him to         
give order that my cabinet should be brought, of which I had the key        
in my pocket (for he had already informed me how the seamen disposed        
of my closet), I opened it in his presence and showed him the small         
collection of rarities I made in the country from where I had been          
so strangely delivered. There was a comb I had contrived out of the         
stumps of the King's beard, and another of the same materials, but          
fixed into a paring of her Majesty's thumb-nail, which served for           
the back. There was a collection of needles and pins from a foot to         
half a yard long; four wasp-stings, like joiners' tacks; some combings      
of the Queen's hair; a gold ring which one day she made me a present        
of in a most obliging manner, taking it from her little finger, and         
throwing it over my head like a collar. I desired the Captain would         
please to accept this ring in return of his civilities, which he            
absolutely refused. I showed him a corn that I had cut off with my own      
hand, from a maid of honor's toe; it was about the bigness of a             
Kentish pippin, and grown so hard that when I returned to England, I        
got it hollowed into a cup, and set in silver. Lastly, I desired him        
to see the breeches I had then on, which were made of a mouse's skin.       
                                                    {P_2|CH_8 ^paragraph 10}
  I could force nothing on him but a footman's tooth, which I observed      
him to examine with great curiosity, and found he had a fancy for           
it. He received it with abundance of thanks, more than such a trifle        
could deserve. It was drawn by an unskillful surgeon, in a mistake,         
from one of Glumdalclitch's men, who was afflicted with the toothache,      
but it was as sound as any in his head. I got it cleaned, and put it        
into my cabinet. It was about a foot long, and four inches in               
diameter.                                                                   
  The Captain was very well satisfied with plain relation I had             
given him, and said he hoped when we returned to England I would            
oblige the world by putting it in paper and making it public. My            
answer was that I thought we were already overstocked with books of         
travels; that nothing could now pass which was not extraordinary;           
wherein I doubted some authors less consulted truth than their own          
vanity, or interest, or the diversion of ignorant readers. That my          
story could contain little besides common events, without those             
ornamental descriptions of strange plants, trees, birds, and other          
animals, or of the barbarous customs and idolatry of savage people,         
with which most writers abound. However, I thanked him for his good         
opinion, and promised to take the matter into my thoughts.                  
  He said he wondered at one thing very much, which was, to bear me         
speak so loud, asking me whether the King or Queen of that country          
were thick of hearing. I told him it was what I had been used to for        
above two years past, and that I admired as much at the voices of           
him and his men, who seemed to me only to whisper, and yet I could          
hear them well enough. But when I spoke in that country, it was like a      
man talking in the street to another looking out from the top of a          
steeple, unless when I was placed on a table, or held in any                
person's hand, I told him, I had likewise observed another thing, that      
when I first got into the ship, and the sailors stood all about me,         
I thought they were the most little contemptible creatures I had            
ever beheld. For indeed while I was in that prince's country, I             
could never endure to look in a glass after my eyes had been                
accustomed to such prodigious objects, because the comparison gave          
me so despicable a conceit of myself. The Captain said that while we        
were at supper he observed me look at everything with a sort of             
wonder, and that I often seemed hardly able to contain my laughter,         
which he knew not well how to take, but imputed it to some disorder in      
my brain. I answered, it was very true; and I wondered how I could          
forbear, when I saw his dishes of the size of a silver three-pence,         
a leg of pork hardly a mouthful, a cup not so big as a nut-shell;           
and so I went on, describing the rest of his household stuff and            
provisions after the same manner. For, although the Queen had               
ordered a little equipage of all things necessary for me while I was        
in her service, yet my ideas were wholly taken up with what I saw on        
every side of me, and I winked at my own littleness as people do at         
their own faults. The Captain understood my raillery very well, and         
merrily replied with the old English proverb, that he doubted my            
eyes were bigger than my belly, for he did not observe my stomach so        
good, although I had fasted all day; and continuing in his mirth,           
protested he would have gladly given a hundred pounds to have seen          
my closet in the eagle's bill, and afterwards in its fall from so           
great a height into the sea; which would certainly have been a most         
astonishing object, worthy to have the description of it transmitted        
to future ages: and the comparison of Phaeton was so obvious, that          
he could not forbear applying it, although I did not much admire the        
conceit.                                                                    
  The Captain having been at Tonquin, was in his return to England          
driven northeastward to the latitude of 44 degrees, and of longitude        
143. But meeting a trade wind two days after I came on board him, we        
sailed southward a long time, and coasting New Holland kept our course      
west-southwest, and then south-southwest till we doubled the Cape of        
Good Hope. Our voyage was very prosperous, but I shall not trouble the      
reader with a journal of it. The Captain called in at one or two            
ports, and sent in his long-boat for provisions and fresh water, but I      
never went out of the ship till we came into the Downs, which was on        
the third day of June, 1706, about nine months after my escape. I           
offered to leave my goods in security for payment of my freight; but        
the Captain protested he would not receive one farthing. We took            
kind leave of each other, and I made him promise he would come to           
see me at my house in Redriff. I hired a horse and guide for five           
shillings, which I borrowed of the Captain.                                 
  As I was on the road, observing the littleness of the houses, the         
trees, the cattle, and the people, I began to think myself in               
Lilliput. I was afraid of trampling on every traveler I met, and often      
called aloud to have them stand out of the way, so that I had like          
to have gotten one or two broken heads for my impertinence.                 
                                                    {P_2|CH_8 ^paragraph 15}
  When I came to my own house, for which I was forced to enquire,           
one of the servants opening the door, I bent down to go in (like a          
goose under a gate) for fear of striking my head. My wife ran out to        
embrace me, but I stooped lower than her knees, thinking she could          
otherwise never be able to reach my mouth. My daughter kneeled to           
ask my blessing, but I could not see her till she arose, having been        
so long used to stand with my head and eyes erect to above sixty feet;      
and then I went to take her up with one hand, by the waist. I looked        
down upon the servants and one or two friends who were in the house,        
as if they had been pigmies, and I a giant. I told my wife, she had         
been too thrifty, for I found she had starved herself and her daughter      
to nothing. In short, I behaved myself so unaccountably, that they          
were all of the Captain's opinion when he first saw me, and                 
concluded I had lost my wits. This I mention as an instance of the          
great power of habit and prejudice.                                         
  In a little time I and my family and friends came to a right              
understanding: but my wife protested I should never go to sea any           
more; although my evil destiny so ordered that she had not power to         
hinder me, as the reader may know hereafter. In the mean time I here        
conclude the second part of my unfortunate voyages.                         
-                                                                           
                THE END OF THE SECOND PART                                  
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                    PART III                                
                                                                            
        A VOYAGE TO LAPUTA, BALNIBARBI, GLUBBDUBDRIB, LUGGNAGG AND JAPAN    
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                  (SEE PLATE 3)                             
                                                                            
P_3|CH_1                                                                    
  CHAPTER I                                                                 
-                                                                           
  I had not been at home above ten days, when Captain William               
Robinson, a Cornish man, Commander of the Hope-well, a stout ship of        
three hundred tons, came to my house. I had formerly been surgeon of        
another ship where he was master, and a fourth part owner, in a voyage      
to the Levant; he had always treated me more like a brother than an         
inferior officer, and hearing of my arrival made me a visit, as I           
apprehended only out of friendship, for nothing passed more than            
what is usual after long absences. But repeating his visits often,          
expressing his joy to find me in good health, asking whether I were         
now settled for life, adding that he intended a voyage to the East          
Indies in two months; at last he plainly invited me, though with            
some apologies, to be surgeon of the ship; that I should have               
another surgeon under me besides our two mates; that my salary              
should be double to the usual pay; and that having experienced my           
knowledge in sea affairs to be at least equal to his, he would enter        
into any engagement to follow my advice, as much as if I had share          
in the command.                                                             
  He said so many other obliging things, and I knew him to be so            
honest a man, that I could not reject his proposal; the thirst I had        
of seeing the world, notwithstanding my past misfortunes, continuing        
as violent as ever. The only difficulty that remained, was to persuade      
my wife, whose consent however I at last obtained by the prospect of        
advantage she proposed to her children.                                     
  We set out the 5th of August, 1706, and arrived at Fort St. George        
the 11th of April 1707. We stayed there three weeks to refresh our          
crew, many of whom were sick. From there we went to Tonquin, where the      
Captain resolved to continue some time, because many of the goods he        
intended to buy were not ready, nor could he expect to be dispatched        
in some months. Therefore in hopes to defray some of the charges he         
must be at, he bought a sloop, loaded it with several sorts of              
goods, wherewith the Tonquinese usually trade to the neighboring            
islands, and putting fourteen men on board, whereof three were of           
the country, he appointed me master of the sloop, and gave me power to      
traffic for two months, while he transacted his affairs at Tonquin.         
  We had not sailed more than three days, when a great storm                
arising, we were driven five days to the north-northeast, and then          
to the east; after which we had fair weather, but still with a              
pretty strong gale from the west. Upon the tenth day we were chased by      
two pirates, who soon overtook us, for my sloop was so deep loaden,         
that she sailed very slow, neither were we in a condition to defend         
ourselves.                                                                  
  We were boarded about the same time by both the pirates, who entered      
furiously at the head of their men, but finding us all prostrate            
upon our faces (for so I gave order) they pinioned us with strong           
ropes, and setting a guard upon us, went to search the sloop.               
                                                     {P_3|CH_1 ^paragraph 5}
  I observed among them a Dutchman, who seemed to be of some                
authority, though he was not commander of either ship. He knew us by        
our countenances to be Englishmen, and jabbering to us in his own           
language, swore we should be tied back to back, and thrown into the         
sea. I spoke Dutch tolerably well; I told him who we were, and              
begged him in consideration of our being Christians and Protestants,        
of neighboring countries, in strict alliance, that he would move the        
Captains to take some pity on us. This inflamed his rage; he                
repeated his threatenings, and turning to his companions, spoke with        
great vehemence, in the Japanese language, as I suppose, often using        
the word Christianos.                                                       
  The largest of the two pirate ships was commanded by a Japanese           
Captain, who spoke a little Dutch, but very imperfectly. He came up to      
me, and after several questions, which I answered in great humility,        
he said we should not die. I made the Captain a very low bow, and then      
turning to the Dutchman, said, I was sorry to find more mercy in a          
heathen, than in a brother Christian. But I had soon reason to              
repent those foolish words; for that malicious reprobate, having often      
endeavored in vain to persuade both the Captains that I might be            
thrown into the sea (which they would not yield to after the promise        
made me, that I should not die), however prevailed so far as to have a      
punishment inflicted on me, worse in all human appearance than death        
itself. My men were sent by an equal division into both the pirate          
ships, and my sloop new manned. As to myself, it was determined that I      
should be set adrift in a small canoe, with paddles and a sail, and         
four days' provisions, which last the Japanese Captain was so kind          
to double out of his own stores, and would permit no man to search me.      
I got down into the canoe, while the Dutchman standing upon the deck,       
loaded me with all the curses and injurious terms his language could        
afford.                                                                     
  About an hour before we saw the pirates, I had taken an observation,      
and found we were in the latitude of 46 N. and of longitude 183.            
When I was at some distance from the pirates, I discovered by my            
pocket glass several islands to the southeast. I set up my sail, the        
wind being fair, with a design to reach the nearest of those                
islands, which I made a shift to do in about three hours. It was all        
rocky; however I got many birds' eggs, and striking fire, I kindled         
some heath and dry seaweed, by which I roasted my eggs. I ate no other      
supper, being resolved to spare my provisions as much as I could. I         
passed the night under the shelter of a rock, strowing some heath           
under me, and slept pretty well.                                            
  The next day I sailed to another island, and then to a third and          
fourth, sometimes using my sail, and sometimes my paddles. But not          
to trouble the reader with a particular account of my distresses,           
let it suffice that on the fifth day I arrived at the last island in        
my sight, which lay south-southeast to the former.                          
  This island was at a greater distance than I expected, and I did not      
reach it in less than five hours. I encompassed it almost around            
before I could find a convenient place to land in, which was a small        
creek about three times the wideness of my canoe. I found the island        
to be all rocky, only a little intermingled with tufts of grass and         
sweet smelling herbs. I took out my small provisions, and after having      
refreshed myself, I secured the remainder in a cave, whereof there          
were great numbers. I gathered plenty of eggs upon the rocks, and           
got a quantity of dry seaweed and parched grass, which I designed to        
kindle the next day, and roast my eggs as well as I could. (For I           
had about me my flint, steel, match, and burning glass.) I lay all          
night in the cave where I had lodged my provisions. My bed was the          
same dry grass and seaweed which I intended for fuel. I slept very          
little, for the disquiets of my mind prevailed over my weariness,           
and kept me awake. I considered how impossible it was to preserve my        
life in so desolate a place, and how miserable my end must be. Yet I        
found myself so listless and desponding that I had not the heart to         
rise, and before I could get spirits enough to creep out of my cave         
the day was far advanced. I walked a while among the rocks; the sky         
was perfectly clear, and the sun so hot that I was forced to turn my        
face from it; when all of a sudden it became obscured, as I thought,        
in a manner very different from what happens by the interposition of a      
cloud. I turned back, and perceived a vast opaque body between me           
and the sun, moving forwards towards the island: it seemed to be about      
two miles high, and hid the sun six or seven minutes, but I did not         
observe the air to be much colder, or the sky more darkened, than if I      
had stood under the shade of a mountain. As it approached nearer            
over the place where I was, it appeared to be a firm substance, the         
bottom flat, smooth, and shining very bright from the reflection of         
the sea below. I stood upon a height about two hundred yards from           
the shore, and saw this vast body descending almost to a parallel with      
me, at less than an English mile distance. I took out my pocket             
perspective, and could plainly discover numbers of people moving up         
and down the sides of it, which appeared to be sloping, but what those      
people were doing, I was not able to distinguish.                           
                                                    {P_3|CH_1 ^paragraph 10}
  The natural love of life gave me some inward motions of joy, and I        
was ready to entertain a hope that this adventure might some way or         
other help to deliver me from the desolate place and condition I was        
in. But at the same time the reader can hardly conceive my                  
astonishment, to behold an island in the air, inhabited by men, who         
were able (as it should seem) to raise or sink, or put it into a            
progressive motion, as they pleased. But not being at that time in a        
disposition to philosophise upon this phenomenon, I rather chose to         
observe what course the island would take, because it seemed for a          
while to stand still. Yet soon after it advanced nearer, and I could        
see the sides of it, encompassed with several gradations of galleries,      
and stairs at certain intervals, to descend from one to the other.          
In the lowest gallery I beheld some people fishing with long angling        
rods, and others looking on. I waved my cap (for my hat was long since      
worn out) and my handkerchief towards the island; and upon its              
nearer approach, I called and shouted with the utmost strength of my        
voice; and then looking circumspectly, I beheld a crowd gather to that      
side which was most in my view. I found by their pointing towards me        
and to each other, that they plainly discovered me, although they made      
no return to my shouting. But I could see four or five men running          
in great haste up the stairs to the top of the island, who then             
disappeared. I happened rightly to conjecture, that these were sent         
for orders to some person in authority upon this occasion.                  
  The number of people increased, and in less than half an hour the         
island was moved and raised in such a manner, that the lowest               
gallery appeared in a parallel of less than a hundred yards distance        
from the height where I stood. I then put myself into the most              
supplicating postures, and spoke in the humblest accent, but                
received no answer. Those who stood nearest over against me seemed          
to be persons of distinction, as I supposed by their habit. They            
conferred earnestly with each other, looking often upon me. At              
length one of them called out in a clear, polite, smooth dialect,           
not unlike in sound to the Italian; and therefore I returned an answer      
in that language, hoping at least that the cadence might be more            
agreeable to his ears. Although neither of us understood the other,         
yet my meaning was easily known, for the people saw the distress I was      
in.                                                                         
  They made signs for me to come down from the rock and go towards the      
shore, which I accordingly did; and the flying island being raised          
to a convenient height, the verge directly over me, a chain was let         
down from the lowest gallery, with a seat fastened to the bottom, to        
which I fixed myself, and was drawn up by pulleys.                          
                                                                            
P_3|CH_2                                                                    
  CHAPTER II                                                                
-                                                                           
  At my alighting I was surrounded by a crowd of people, but those who      
stood nearest seemed to be of better quality. They beheld me with           
all the marks and circumstances of wonder; neither indeed was I much        
in their debt, having never till then seen a race of mortals so             
singular in their shapes, habits, and countenances. Their heads were        
all reclined either to the right or the left; one of their eyes turned      
inward, and the other directly up to the zenith. Their outward              
garments were adorned with the figures of suns, moons, and stars,           
interwoven with those of fiddles, flutes, harps, trumpets, guitars,         
harpsichords, and many other instruments of music, unknown to us in         
Europe. I observed here and there many in the habit of servants,            
with a blown bladder fastened like a flail to the end of a short            
stick, which they carried in their hands. In each bladder was a             
small quantity of dried pease, or little pebbles (as I was                  
afterwards informed). With these bladders they now and then flapped         
the mouths and ears of those who stood near them, of which practice         
I could not then conceive the meaning; it seems the minds of these          
people are so taken up with intense speculations, that they neither         
can speak, nor attend to the discourses of others, without being            
roused by some external taction upon the organs of speech and hearing;      
for which reason those persons who are able to afford it always keep a      
flapper (the original is climenole) in their family, as one of their        
domestics, nor ever walk abroad or make visits without him. And the         
business of this officer is, when two or more persons are in                
company, gently to strike with his bladder the mouth of him who is          
to speak, and the right ear of him or them to whom the speaker              
addresses himself. This flapper is likewise employed diligently to          
attend his master in his walks, and upon occasion to give him a soft        
flap on his eyes, because he is always so wrapped up in cogitation,         
that he is in manifest danger of falling down every precipice, and          
bouncing his head against every post, and in the streets, of                
jostling others, or being jostled himself into the kennel.                  
  It was necessary to give the reader this information, without             
which he would be at the same loss with me, to understand the               
proceedings of these people, as they conducted me the stairs, to the        
top of the island, and from there to the royal palace. While we were        
ascending, they forgot several times what they were about, and left         
me to myself, till their memories were again roused by their                
flappers; for they appeared altogether unmoved by the sight of my           
foreign habit and countenance, and by the shouts of the vulgar,             
whose thoughts and minds were more disengaged.                              
  At last we entered the palace, and proceeded into the chamber of          
presence, where I saw the King seated on his throne, attended on            
each side by persons of prime quality. Before the throne was a large        
table filled with globes and spheres, and mathematical instruments          
of all kinds. His Majesty took not the least notice of us, although         
our entrance was not without sufficient noise, by the concourse of all      
persons belonging to the court. But he was then deep in a problem, and      
we attended at least an hour, before he could solve it. There stood by      
him on each side a young page, with flaps in their hands, and when          
they saw he was at leisure, one of them gently struck his mouth, and        
the other his right ear; at which he started like one awakened on           
the sudden, and looking towards me and the company I was in,                
recollected the occasion of our coming, whereof he had been informed        
before. He spoke some words, whereupon immediately a young man with         
a flap came up to my side, and flapped me gently on the right ear; but      
I made signs, as well as I could, that I had no occasion for such an        
instrument; which, as I afterwards found, gave his Majesty and the          
whole court a very mean opinion of my understanding. The King, as           
far as I could conjecture, asked me several questions, and I addressed      
myself to him in all the languages I had. When it was found that I          
could neither understand nor be understood, I was conducted by the          
King's order to an apartment in his palace (this prince being               
distinguished above all his predecessors for his hospitality to             
strangers), where two servants were appointed to attend me. My              
dinner was brought, and four persons of quality, whom I remembered          
to have seen very near the King's person, did me the honor to dine          
with me. We had two courses of three dishes each. In the first              
course there was a shoulder of mutton, cut into an equilateral              
triangle, a piece of beef into a rhomboides, and a pudding into a           
cycloid. The second course was two ducks, trussed up into the form          
of fiddles; sausages and puddings resembling flutes and hautboys,           
and a breast of veal in the shape of a harp. The servants cut our           
bread into cones, cylinders, parallelograms, and several other              
mathematical figures.                                                       
  While we were at dinner, I made bold to ask the names of several          
things in their language; and those noble persons, by the assistance        
of their flappers, delighted to give me answers, hoping to raise my         
admiration of their great abilities, if I could be brought to converse      
with them. I was soon able to call for bread and drink, or whatever         
else I wanted.                                                              
  After dinner my company withdrew, and a person was sent to me by the      
King's order, attended by a flapper. He brought with him pen, ink, and      
paper, and three or four books, giving me to understand by signs, that      
he was sent to teach me the language. We sat together four hours, in        
which time I wrote down a great number of words in columns, with the        
translations over against them. I likewise made a shift to learn            
several short sentences. For my tutor would order one of my servants        
to fetch something, to turn about, to make a bow, to sit, or stand, or      
walk, and the like. Then I took down the sentence in writing. He            
showed me also in one of his books the figures of the sun, moon, and        
stars, the zodiac, the tropics, and polar circles, together with the        
denominations of many figures of planes and solids. He gave me the          
names and descriptions of all the musical instruments, and the general      
terms of art in playing on each of them. After he had left me, I            
placed all my words with their interpretations in alphabetical              
order. And thus in a few days, by the help of a very faithful               
memory, I got some insight into their language.                             
                                                     {P_3|CH_2 ^paragraph 5}
  The word, which I interpret the Flying or Floating Island, is in the      
original Laputa, whereof I could never learn the true etymology. Lap        
in the old obsolete language signifies high, and untuh, a governor,         
from which they say by corruption was derived Laputa, from Lapuntuh.        
But I do not approve of this derivation, which seems to be a little         
strained. I ventured to offer to the learned among them a conjecture        
of my own, that Laputa was quasi lap outed; lap signifying properly         
the dancing of the sunbeams in the sea, and outed, a wing, which            
however I shall not obtrude, but submit to the judicious reader.            
  Those to whom the King had entrusted me, observing how ill I was          
clad, ordered a tailor to come next morning, and take my measure for a      
suit of clothes. This operator did his office after a different manner      
from those of his trade in Europe. He first took my height by a             
quadrant, and then with a rule and compasses described the                  
dimensions and outlines of my whole body, all which he entered upon         
paper, and in six days brought my clothes very ill made, and quite out      
of shape, by happening to mistake a figure in the calculation. But          
my comfort was, that I observed such accidents very frequent, and           
little regarded.                                                            
  During my confinement for want of clothes, and by an indisposition        
that held me some days longer, I much enlarged my dictionary; and when      
I went next to court, was able to understand many things the King           
spoke, and to return him some kind of answers. His Majesty had given        
orders that the island should move northeast and by east, to the            
vertical point over Lagado, the metropolis of the whole kingdom             
below upon the firm earth. It was about ninety leagues distant, and         
our voyage lasted four days and an half. I was not in the least             
sensible of the progressive motion made in the air by the island. On        
the second morning about eleven o'clock, the King himself in person,        
attended by his nobility, courtiers, and officers, having prepared all      
their musical instruments, played on them for three hours without           
intermission, so that I was quite stunned with the noise; neither           
could I possibly guess the meaning, till my tutor informed me. He said      
that the people of their island had their ears adapted to hear the          
music of the spheres, which always played at certain periods, and           
the court was now prepared to bear their part in whatever instrument        
they most excelled.                                                         
  In our journey towards Lagado, the capital city, his Majesty ordered      
that the island should stop over certain towns and villages, from           
whence he might receive the petitions of his subjects. And to this          
purpose several packthreads were let down with small weights at the         
bottom. On these packthreads the people strung their petitions,             
which mounted up directly like the scraps of paper fastened by              
school boys at the end of the string that holds their kite.                 
Sometimes we received wine and victuals from below, which were drawn        
up by pulleys.                                                              
  The knowledge I had in mathematics gave me great assistance in            
acquiring their phraseology, which depended much upon that science and      
music; and in the latter I was not unskilled. Their ideas are               
perpetually conversant in lines and figures. If they would, for             
example, praise the beauty of a woman, or any other animal, they            
describe it by rhombs, circles, parallelograms, ellipses, and other         
geometrical terms, or by words of art drawn from music, needless            
here to repeat. I observed in the King's kitchen all sorts of               
mathematical and musical instruments, after the figures of which            
they cut up the joints that were served to his Majesty's table.             
                                                    {P_3|CH_2 ^paragraph 10}
  Their houses are very ill built, the walls bevel without one right        
angle in any apartment, and this defect arises from the contempt            
they bear to practical geometry, which they despise as vulgar and           
mechanic, those instructions they give being too refined for the            
intellectuals of their workmen, which occasions perpetual mistakes.         
And although they are dexterous enough upon a piece of paper in the         
management of the rule, the pencil, and the divider, yet in the common      
actions and behavior of life, I have not seen a more clumsy,                
awkward, and unhandy people, nor so slow and perplexed in their             
conceptions upon all other subjects, except those of mathematics and        
music. They are very bad reasoners, and vehemently given to                 
opposition, unless when they happen to be of the right opinion,             
which is seldom their case. Imagination, fancy, and invention, they         
are wholly strangers to, nor have any words in their language by which      
those ideas can be expressed; the whole compass of their thoughts           
and mind being shut up within the two forementioned sciences.               
  Most of them, and especially those who deal in the astronomical           
part, have great faith in judicial astrology, although they are             
ashamed to own it publicly. But what I chiefly admired, and thought         
altogether unaccountable, was the strong disposition I observed in          
them towards news and politics, perpetually enquiring into public           
affairs, giving their judgments in matters of state, and                    
passionately disputing every inch of a party opinion. I have indeed         
observed the same disposition among most of the mathematicians I            
have known in Europe, although I could never discover the least             
analogy between the two sciences; unless those people suppose, that         
because the smallest circle hath as many degrees as the largest,            
therefore the regulation and management of the world require no more        
abilities than the handling and turning of a globe. But I rather            
take this quality to spring from a very common infirmity of human           
nature, inclining us to be more curious and conceited in matters where      
we have least concern, and for which we are least adapted either by         
study or nature.                                                            
  These people are under continual disquietudes, never enjoying a           
minute's peace of mind; and their disturbances proceed from causes          
which very little affect the rest of mortals. Their apprehensions           
arise from several changes they dread in the celestial bodies. For          
instance, that the earth, by the continual approaches of the sun            
towards it, must in course of time be absorbed or swallowed up. That        
the face of the sun will by degrees be encrusted with its own               
effluvia, and give no more light to the world. That the earth very          
narrowly escaped a brush from the tail of the last comet, which             
would have infallibly reduced it to ashes; and that the next, which         
they have calculated for thirty-one years hence, will probably destroy      
us. For if in its perihelion it should approach within a certain            
degree of the sun (as by their calculations they have reason to dread)      
it will conceive a degree of heat ten thousand times more intense than      
that of red-hot glowing iron; and in its absence from the sun, carry a      
blazing tail ten hundred thousand and fourteen miles long; through          
which if the earth should pass at the distance of one hundred thousand      
miles from the nucleus or main body of the comet, it must in its            
passage be set on fire, and reduced to ashes. That the sun daily            
spending its rays without any nutriment to supply them, will at last        
be wholly consumed and annihilated; which must be attended with the         
destruction of this earth, and of all the planets that receive their        
light from it.                                                              
  They are so perpetually alarmed with the apprehensions of these           
and the like impending dangers, that they can neither sleep quietly in      
their beds, nor have any relish for the common pleasures or amusements      
of life. When they meet an acquaintance in the morning, the first           
question is about the sun's health, how he looked at his setting and        
rising, and what hopes they have to avoid the stroke of the                 
approaching comet. This conversation they are apt to run into with the      
same temper that boys discover, in delighting to hear terrible stories      
of sprites and hobgoblins, which they greedily listen to, and dare not      
go to bed for fear.                                                         
  The women of the island have abundance of vivacity: they contemn          
their husbands, and are exceedingly fond of strangers, whereof there        
is always a considerable number from the continent below, attending at      
court, either upon affairs of the several towns and corporations, or        
their own particular occasions, but are much despised, because they         
want the same endowments. Among these the ladies choose their               
gallants: but the vexation is, that they act with too much ease and         
security, for the husband is always so rapt in speculation, that the        
mistress and lover may proceed to the greatest familiarities before         
his face, if he be but provided with paper and implements, and without      
his flapper at his side.                                                    
                                                    {P_3|CH_2 ^paragraph 15}
  The wives and daughters lament their confinement to the island,           
although I think it the most delicious spot of ground in the world;         
and although they live here in the greatest plenty and magnificence,        
and are allowed to do whatever they please, they long to see the            
world, and take the diversions of the metropolis, which they are not        
allowed to do without a particular license from the King; and this          
is not easy to be obtained, because the people of quality have found        
by frequent experience how hard it is to persuade their women to            
return from below. I was told that a great court lady, who had several      
children, is married to the prime minister, the richest subject in the      
kingdom, a very graceful person, extremely fond of her, and lives in        
the finest palace of the island, went down to Lagado, on the                
pretense of health, there hid herself for several months, till the          
King sent a warrant to search for her, and she was found in an obscure      
eatinghouse all in rags, having pawned her clothes to maintain an           
old deformed footman, who beat her every day, and in whose company she      
was taken much against her will. And although her husband received her      
with all possible kindness, and without the least reproach, she soon        
after contrived to steal down again with all her jewels, to the same        
gallant, and has not been heard of since.                                   
  This may perhaps pass with the reader rather for an European or           
English story, than for one of a country so remote. But he may              
please to consider, that the caprices of are not limited by any             
climate or nation, and that they are much more uniform than can be          
easily imagined.                                                            
  In about a month's time I had made a tolerable proficiency in             
their language, and was able to answer most of the King's questions,        
when I had the honor to attend him. His Majesty discovered not the          
least curiosity to inquire into the laws, government, history,              
religion, or manners of the countries where I had been, but confined        
his questions to the state of mathematics, and received the account         
I gave him with great contempt and indifference, though often roused        
by his flapper on each side.                                                
                                                                            
P_3|CH_3                                                                    
  CHAPTER III                                                               
-                                                                           
  I desired leave of this prince to see the curiosities of the island,      
which he was graciously pleased to grant, and ordered my tutor to           
attend me. I chiefly wanted to know to what cause in art or in              
nature it owed its several motions, whereof I will now give a               
philosophical account to the reader.                                        
  The Flying or Floating Island is exactly circular, its diameter 7837      
yards, or about four miles and a half, and consequently contains ten        
thousand acres. It is three hundred yards thick. The bottom or under        
surface, which appears to those who view it from below, is one even         
regular plate of adamant, shooting up to the height of about two            
hundred yards. Above it lie the several minerals in their usual order,      
and over all is a coat of rich mold, ten or twelve feet deep. The           
declivity of the upper surface, from the circumference to the               
center, is the natural cause why all the dews and rains which fall          
upon the island, are conveyed in small rivulets toward the middle,          
where they are emptied into four large basins, each of about half a         
mile in circuit, and two hundred yards distant from the center. From        
these basins the water is continually exhaled by the sun in the             
daytime, which effectually prevents their overflowing. Besides, as          
it is in the power of the monarch to raise the island above the region      
of clouds and vapors, he can prevent the falling of dews and rains          
whenever he pleases. For the highest clouds cannot rise above two           
miles, as naturalists agree, at least they were never known to do so        
in that country.                                                            
  At the centre of the island there is a chasm about fifty yards in         
diameter, from whence the astronomers descend into a large dome, which      
is therefore called Flandona Gagnole, or the Astronomer's Cave,             
situated at the depth of a hundred yards beneath the upper surface          
of the adamant. In this cave are twenty lamps continually burning,          
which from the reflection of the adamant cast a strong light into           
every part. The place is stored with great variety of sextants,             
quadrants, telescopes, astrolabes, and other astronomical instruments.      
But the greatest curiosity, upon which the fate of the island depends,      
is a loadstone of a prodigious size, in shape resembling a weaver's         
shuttle. It is in length six yards, and in the thickest part at             
least three yards over. This magnet is sustained by a very strong axle      
of adamant passing through its middle, upon which it plays, and is          
poised so exactly that the weakest hand can turn it. It is hooped           
round with a hollow cylinder of adamant, four feet deep, as many            
thick, and twelve yards in diameter, placed horizontally, and               
supported by eight adamantine feet, each six yards high. In the middle      
of the concave side there is a groove twelve inches deep, in which the      
extremities of the axle are lodged, and turned round as there is            
occasion.                                                                   
  The stone cannot be moved from its place by any force, because the        
hoop and its feet are one continued piece with that body of adamant         
which constitutes the bottom of the island.                                 
  By means of this loadstone, the island is made to rise and fall, and      
move from one place to another. For with respect to that part of the        
earth over which the monarch presides, the stone is endued at one of        
its sides with an attractive power, and at the other with a repulsive.      
Upon placing the magnet erect with its attracting end towards the           
earth, the island descends; but when the repelling extremity points         
downwards, the island mounts directly upwards. When the position of         
the stone is oblique, the motion of the island is so too. For in            
this magnet the forces always act in lines parallel to its direction.       
                                                     {P_3|CH_3 ^paragraph 5}
                             (SEE PLATE 4)                                  
  By this oblique motion the island is conveyed to different parts          
of the monarch's dominions. To explain the manner of its progress, let      
AB represent a line drawn cross the dominions of Balnibarbi, let the        
line cd represent the loadstone, of which let d be the repelling            
end, and c the attracting end, the island being over C; let the             
stone be placed in the position cd, with its repelling end                  
downwards; then the island will be driven upwards obliquely towards D.      
When it is arrived at D, let the stone be turned upon its axle, till        
its attracting end points towards E, and then the island will be            
carried obliquely towards E; where if the stone be again turned upon        
its axle till it stands in the position EF, with its repelling point        
downwards, the island will rise obliquely towards F, where by               
directing the attracting end towards G, the island may be carried to        
G, and from G to H, by turning the stone, so as to make its                 
repelling extremity point directly downwards. And thus by changing the      
situation of the stone as often as there is occasion, the island is         
made to rise and fall by turns in an oblique direction, and by those        
alternate risings and fallings (the obliquity being not                     
considerable) is conveyed from one part of the dominions to the other.      
  But it must be observed that this island cannot move beyond the           
extent of the dominions below, nor can it rise above the height of          
four miles. For which the astronomers (who have written large               
systems concerning the stone) assign the following reason: that the         
magnetic virtue does not extend beyond the distance of four Miles, and      
that the mineral which acts upon the stone in the bowels of the earth,      
and in the sea about six leagues distant from the shore, is not             
diffused through the whole globe, but terminated with the limits of         
the King's dominions; and it was easy from the great advantage of such      
a superior situation, for a prince to bring under his obedience             
whatever country lay within the attraction of that magnet.                  
  When the stone is put parallel to the plane of the horizon, the           
island stands still; for in that case the extremities of it being at        
equal distance from the earth, act with equal force, the one in             
drawing downwards, the other in pushing upwards, and consequently no        
motion can ensue.                                                           
  This loadstone is under the care of certain astronomers, who from         
time to time give it such positions as the monarch directs. They spend      
the greatest part of their lives in observing the celestial bodies,         
which they do by the assistance of glasses far excelling ours in            
goodness. For although their largest telescopes do not exceed three         
feet, they magnify much more than those of a hundred yards among us,        
and at the same time show the stars with greater clearness. This            
advantage has enabled them to extend their discoveries much farther         
than our astronomers in Europe; for they have made a catalogue of           
ten thousand fixed stars, whereas the largest of ours do not contain        
above one third part of that number. They have likewise discovered two      
lesser stars, or satellites, which revolve about Mars, whereof the          
innermost is distant from the center of the primary planet exactly          
three of his diameters, and the outermost five; the former revolves in      
the space of ten hours, and the latter in twenty-one and a half; so         
that the squares of their periodical times are very near in the same        
proportion with the cubes of their distance from the center of Mars,        
which evidently shows them to be governed by the same law of                
gravitation that influences the other heavenly bodies.                      
                                                    {P_3|CH_3 ^paragraph 10}
  They have observed ninety-three different comets, and settled             
their periods with great exactness. If this be true (and they affirm        
it with great confidence), it is much to be wished that their               
observations were made public, whereby the theory of comets, which          
at present is very lame and defective, might be brought to the same         
perfection with other parts of astronomy.                                   
  The King would be the most absolute prince in the universe, if he         
could but prevail on a ministry to join with him; but these having          
their estates below on the continent, and considering that the              
office of a favorite has a very uncertain tenure, would never               
consent to the enslaving their country.                                     
  If any town should engage in rebellion or mutiny, fall into               
violent factions, or refuse to pay the usual tribute, the King has two      
methods of reducing them to obedience. The first and the mildest            
course by keeping the island hovering over such a town, and the             
lands about it, whereby he can deprive them of the benefit of the           
sun and the rain, and consequently afflict the inhabitants with dearth      
and diseases. And if the crime deserve it, they are at the same time        
pelted from above with great stones, against which they have no             
defense but by creeping into cellars or caves, while the roofs of           
their houses are beaten to pieces. But if they still continue               
obstinate, or offer to raise insurrections, he proceeds to the last         
remedy, by letting the island drop directly upon their heads, which         
makes a universal destruction both of houses and men. However, this is      
an extremity to which the prince is seldom driven, neither indeed is        
he willing to put it in execution, nor dare his ministers advise him        
to an action, which as it would render them odious to the people, so        
it would be a great damage to their own estates, which lie all              
below, for the island is the King's demesne.                                
  But there is still indeed a more weighty reason, why the kings of         
this country have been always averse from executing so terrible an          
action, unless upon the utmost necessity. For if the town intended          
to be destroyed should have in it any tall rocks, as it generally           
falls out in the larger cities, a situation probably chosen at first        
with a view to prevent such a catastrophe; or if it abound in high          
spires, or pillars of stone, a sudden fall might endanger the bottom        
or under surface of the island, which, although it consist, as I            
have said, of one entire adamant two hundred yards thick, might happen      
to crack by too great a shock, or burst by approaching too near the         
fires from the houses below, as the backs both of iron and stone            
will often do in our chimneys. Of all this the people are well              
apprised, and understand how far to carry their obstinacy, where their      
liberty or property is concerned. And the King, when he is highest          
provoked, and most determined to press a city to rubbish, orders the        
island to descend with great gentleness, out of a pretense of               
tenderness to his people, but indeed for fear of breaking the               
adamantine bottom; in which case it is the opinion of all their             
philosophers that the loadstone could no longer hold it up, and the         
whole mass would fall to the ground.                                        
  About three years before my arrival among them, while the King was        
in his progress over his dominions, there happened an extraordinary         
accident which had like to have put a period to the fate of that            
monarchy, at least as it is now instituted. Lindalino, the second city      
in the kingdom, was the first his Majesty visited in his progress.          
Three days after his departure the inhabitants, who had often               
complained of great oppressions, shut the town gates, seized on the         
governor, and with incredible speed and labor erected four large            
towers, one at every corner of the city (which is an exact square),         
equal in height to a strong pointed rock that stands directly in the        
center of the city. Upon the top of each tower, as well as upon the         
rock, they fixed a great loadstone, and in case their design should         
fail, they had provided a vast quantity of the most combustible             
fuel, hoping to burst therewith the adamantine bottom of the island,        
if the loadstone project should miscarry.                                   
                                                    {P_3|CH_3 ^paragraph 15}
  It was eight months before the King had perfect notice that the           
Lindalinians were in rebellion. He then commanded that the island           
should be wafted over the city. The people were unanimous, and had          
laid in stores of provisions, and a great river runs through the            
middle of the town. The King hovered over them several days to deprive      
them of the sun and the rain. He ordered many packthreads to be let         
down, yet not a person offered to send up a petition, but instead           
thereof very bold demands, the redress of all their grievances,             
great immunities, the choice of their own governor, and other like          
exorbitances. Upon which his Majesty commanded all the inhabitants          
of the island to cast great stones from the lower gallery into the          
town; but the citizens had provided against this mischief by conveying      
their persons and effects into the four towers, and other strong            
buildings, and vaults underground.                                          
  The King being now determined to reduce this proud people, ordered        
that the island should descend gently within forty yards of the top of      
the towers and rock. This was accordingly done; but the officers            
employed in that work found the descent much speedier than usual,           
and by turning the loadstone could not without great difficulty keep        
it in a firm position, but found the island inclining to fall. They         
sent the King immediate intelligence of this astonishing event, and         
begged his Majesty's permission to raise the island higher; the King        
consented, a general council was called, and the officers of the            
loadstone ordered to attend. One of the oldest and most expert among        
them obtained leave to try an experiment. He took a strong line of a        
hundred yards, and the island being raised over the town above the          
attracting power they had felt, he fastened a piece of adamant to           
the end of his line, which had in it a mixture of iron mineral, of the      
same nature with that whereof the bottom or lower surface of the            
island is composed, and from the lower gallery let it down slowly           
towards the top of the towers. The adamant was not descended four           
yards, before the officer felt it drawn so strongly downward that he        
could hardly pull it back. He then threw down several small pieces          
of adamant, and observed that they were all violently attracted by the      
top of the tower. The same experiment was made on the other three           
towers, and on the rock with the same effect.                               
  This incident broke entirely the King's measures, and (to dwell no        
longer on other circumstances) he was forced to give the town their         
own conditions.                                                             
  I was assured by a great minister that if the island had descended        
so near the town as not to be able to raise itself, the citizens            
were determined to fix it for ever, to kill the King and all his            
servants, and entirely change the government.                               
  By a fundamental law of this realm, neither the king, nor either          
of his two elder sons, are permitted to leave the island; nor the           
queen, till she is past child-bearing.                                      
                                                                            
P_3|CH_4                                                                    
  CHAPTER IV                                                                
-                                                                           
  Although I cannot say that I was ill treated in this island, yet I        
must confess I thought myself too much neglected, not without some          
degree of contempt. For neither prince nor people appeared to be            
curious in any part of knowledge, except mathematics and music,             
wherein I was far their inferior, and upon that account very little         
regarded.                                                                   
  On the other side, after having seen all the curiosities of the           
island, I was very desirous to leave it, being heartily weary of those      
people. They were indeed excellent in two sciences for which I have         
great esteem, and wherein I am not unversed; but at the same time so        
abstracted and involved in speculation, that I never met with such          
disagreeable companions. I conversed only with women, tradesmen,            
flappers, and court pages, during two months of my abode there, by          
which at last I rendered myself extremely contemptible; yet these were      
the only people from whom I could ever receive a reasonable answer.         
  I had obtained by hard study a good degree of knowledge in their          
language; I was weary of being confined to an island where I                
received so little countenance, and resolved to leave it with the           
first opportunity.                                                          
  There was a great lord at court, nearly related to the King, and for      
that reason alone used with respect. He was universally reckoned the        
most ignorant and stupid person among them. He had performed many           
eminent services for the crown, had great natural and acquired              
parts, adorned with integrity and honor, but so ill an ear for              
music, that his detractors reported he had been often known to beat         
time in the wrong place; neither could his tutors without extreme           
difficulty teach him to demonstrate the most easy proposition in the        
mathematics. He was pleased to show me many marks of favor, often           
did me the honor of a visit, desired to be informed in the affairs          
of Europe, the laws and customs, the manners and learning of the            
several countries where I had traveled. He listened to me with great        
attention, and made very wise observations on all I spoke. He had           
two flappers attending him for state, but never made use of them            
except at court, and in visits of ceremony, and would always command        
them to withdraw when we were alone together.                               
  I entreated this illustrious person to intercede in my behalf with        
his Majesty for leave to depart, which he accordingly did, as he was        
pleased to tell me, with regret: for indeed he had made me several          
offers very advantageous, which however I refused with expressions          
of the highest acknowledgment.                                              
                                                     {P_3|CH_4 ^paragraph 5}
  On the 16th day of February I took leave of his Majesty and the           
court. The King made me a present to the value of about two hundred         
pounds English, and my protector his kinsman as much more, together         
with a letter of recommendation to a friend of his in Lagado, the           
metropolis. The island being then hovering over a mountain about two        
miles from it, I was let down from the lowest gallery, in the same          
manner as I had been taken up.                                              
  The continent, as far as it is subject to the monarch of the              
Flying Island, passes under the general name of Balnibarbi, and the         
metropolis, as I said before, is called Lagado. I felt some little          
satisfaction in finding myself on firm ground. I walked to the city         
without any concern, being clad like one of the natives, and                
sufficiently instructed to converse with them. I soon found out the         
person's house to whom I was ended, presented my letter from his            
friend the grandee in the island, and was received with much kindness.      
This great lord, whose name was Munodi, ordered me an apartment in his      
own house, where I continued during my stay, and was entertained in         
a most hospitable manner.                                                   
  The next morning after my arrival, he took me in his chariot to           
see the town, which is about half the size of London, but the houses        
very strangely built, and most of them out of repair. The people in         
the streets walked fast, looked wild, their eyes fixed, and were            
generally in rags. We passed through one of the town gates, and went        
about three miles into the country, where I saw many laborers               
working with several sorts of tools in the ground, but was not able to      
conjecture what they were about; neither did I observe any expectation      
either of corn or grass, although the soil appeared to be excellent. I      
could not forbear admiring at these odd appearances both in town and        
country, and I made bold to desire my conductor, that he would be           
pleased to explain to me what could be meant by so many busy heads,         
hands, and faces, both in the streets and the fields, because I did         
not discover any good effects they produced; but on the contrary, I         
never knew a soil so unhappily cultivated, houses so ill contrived and      
so ruinous, or a people whose countenances and habit expressed so much      
misery and want.                                                            
  This Lord Munodi was a person of the first rank, and had been some        
years Governor of Lagado, but by a cabal of ministers was discharged        
for insufficiency. However, the King treated him with tenderness, as a      
well-meaning man, but of a low contemptible understanding.                  
  When I gave that free censure of the country and its inhabitants, he      
made no further answer than by telling me that I had not been long          
enough among them to form a judgment, and that the different nations        
of the world had different customs, with other common topics to the         
same purpose. But when we returned to his palace, he asked me how I         
liked the building, what absurdities I observed, and what quarrel I         
had with the dress or looks of his domestics. This he might safely do,      
because every thing about him was magnificent, regular, and polite.         
I answered that his Excellency's prudence, quality, and fortune, had        
exempted him from those defects which folly and beggary had produced        
in others. He said if I would go with him to his country house,             
about twenty miles distant, where his estate lay, there would be            
more leisure for this kind of conversation. I told his Excellency that      
I was entirely at his disposal, and accordingly we set out next             
morning.                                                                    
                                                    {P_3|CH_4 ^paragraph 10}
  During our journey he made me observe the several methods used by         
farmers in managing their lands, which to me were wholly                    
unaccountable; for except in some very few places I could not discover      
one ear of corn or blade of grass. But in three hours' traveling the        
scene was wholly altered; we came into a most beautiful country;            
farmers' houses at small distances, neatly built; the fields enclosed,      
containing vineyards, corn grounds, and meadows. Neither do I remember      
to have seen a more delightful prospect. His Excellency observed my         
countenance to clear up; he told me with a sigh that there his              
estate began, and would continue the same till we should come to his        
house. That his countrymen ridiculed and despised him for managing his      
affairs no better, and for setting so ill an example to the kingdom,        
which however was followed by very few, such as were old, and willful,      
and weak like himself.                                                      
  We came at length to the house, which was indeed a noble                  
structure, built according to the best rules of ancient                     
architecture. The fountains, gardens, walks, avenues, and groves            
were all disposed with exact judgment and taste. I gave due praises to      
every thing I saw, whereof his Excellency took not the least notice         
till after supper, when, there being no third companion, he told me         
with a very melancholy air that he doubted he must thrown down his          
houses in town and country, to rebuild them after the present mode,         
destroy all his plantations, and cast others into such a form as            
modern usage required, and give the same directions to all his              
tenants, unless he would submit to incur the censure of pride,              
singularity, affectation, ignorance, caprice, and perhaps increase his      
Majesty's displeasure.                                                      
  That the admiration I appeared to be under would cease or diminish        
when he had informed me of some particulars, which probably I never         
heard of at court, the people there being too much taken up in their        
own speculations, to have regard to what passed here below.                 
  The sum of his discourse was to this effect. That about forty             
years ago certain persons went up to Laputa, either upon business or        
diversion, and after five months continuance came back with a very          
little smattering in mathematics, but full of volatile spirits              
acquired in that airy region. That these persons upon their return          
began to dislike the management of every thing below, and fell into         
schemes of putting all arts, sciences, languages, and mechanics upon a      
new foot. To this end they procured a royal patent for erecting an          
Academy of Projectors in Lagado; and the humor prevailed so strongly        
among the people, that there is not a town of any consequence in the        
kingdom without such an academy. In these colleges the professors           
contrive new rules and methods of agriculture and building, and new         
instruments and tools for all trades and manufactures, whereby, as          
they undertake, one man shall do the work of ten; a palace may be           
built in a week, of materials so durable as to last forever without         
repairing. All the fruits of the earth shall come to maturity at            
whatever season we think fit to choose, and increase a hundred fold         
more than they do at present, with innumerable other happy                  
proposals. The only inconvenience is, that none of these projects           
are yet brought to perfection, and in the meantime, the whole               
country lies miserably waste, the houses in ruins, and the people           
without food or clothes. By all which, instead of being discouraged,        
they are fifty times more violently bent upon prosecuting their             
schemes, driven equally on by hope and despair; that as for himself,        
being not of an enterprising spirit, he was content to go on in the         
old forms, to live in the houses his ancestors had built, and act as        
they did in every part of life without innovation. That some few other      
persons of quality and gentry had done the same, but were looked on         
with an eye of contempt and ill-will, as enemies to art, ignorant, and      
ill commonwealth's-men, preferring their own ease and sloth before the      
general improvement of their country.                                       
  His Lordship added that he would not by any further particulars           
prevent the pleasure I should certainly take in viewing the grand           
Academy, whither he was resolved I should go. He only desired me to         
observe a ruined building upon the side of a mountain about three           
miles distant, of which he gave me this account. That he had a very         
convenient mill within half a mile of his house, turned by a current        
from a large river, and sufficient for his own family as well as a          
great number of his tenants. That about seven years ago a club of           
those projectors came to him with proposals to destroy this mill,           
and build another on the side of that mountain, on the long ridge           
whereof a long canal must be cut for a repository of water, to be           
conveyed up by pipes and engines to supply the mill; because the            
wind and air upon a height agitated the water, and thereby made it          
fitter for motion; and because the water descending down a declivity        
would turn the mill with half the current of a river whose course is        
more upon a level. He said, that being then not very well with the          
court, and pressed by many of his friends, he complied with the             
proposal; and after employing an hundred men for two years, the work        
miscarried, the projectors went off, laying the blame entirely. upon        
him, railing at him ever since, and putting others upon the same            
experiment, with equal assurance of success, as well as equal               
disappointment.                                                             
                                                    {P_3|CH_4 ^paragraph 15}
  In a few days we came back to town, and his Excellency,                   
considering the bad character he had in the Academy, would not go with      
me himself, but recommended me to a friend of his to bear me company        
thither. My lord was pleased to represent me as a great admirer of          
projects, and a person of much curiosity and easy belief; which indeed      
was not without truth, for I had myself been a sort of projector in my      
younger days.                                                               
                                                                            
P_3|CH_5                                                                    
  CHAPTER V                                                                 
-                                                                           
  This Academy is not an entire single building, but a continuation of      
several houses on both sides of a street, which growing waste was           
purchased and applied to that use.                                          
  I was received very kindly by the Warden, and went for many days          
to the Academy. Every room has in it one or more projectors, and I          
believe I could not be in fewer than five hundred rooms.                    
  The first man I saw was of a meager aspect, with sooty hands and          
face, his hair and beard long, ragged and singed in several places.         
His clothes, shirt, and skin were all of the same color. He had been        
eight years upon a project for extracting sunbeams out of cucumbers,        
which were to be put into vials hermetically sealed, and let out to         
warm the air in raw inclement summers. He told me he did not doubt          
in eight years more he should be able to supply the Governor's gardens      
with sunshine at a reasonable rate; but he complained that his stock        
was low, and entreated me to give him something as an encouragement to      
ingenuity, especially since this had been a very dear season for            
cucumbers. I made him a small present, for my lord had furnished me         
with money on purpose, because he knew their practice of begging            
from all who go to see them.                                                
  I went into another chamber, but was ready to hasten back, being          
almost overcome with a horrible stink. My conductor pressed me              
forward, conjuring me in a whisper to give no offense, which would          
be highly resented, and therefore I dare not so much as stop my             
nose. The projector of this cell was the most ancient student of the        
Academy; his face and beard were of a pale yellow; his hands and            
clothes daubed over with filth. When I was presented to him, he gave        
me a close embrace (a compliment I could well have excused). His            
employment from his first coming into the Academy, was an operation to      
reduce human excrement to its original food, by separating the several      
parts, removing the tincture which it receives from the gall, making        
the odor exhale, and off the saliva. He had a weekly allowance from         
the society, of a vessel filled with human ordure about the size of         
a Bristol barrel.                                                           
  I saw another at work to calcine ice into gunpowder, who likewise         
showed me a treatise he had written concerning the malleability of          
fire, which he intended to publish.                                         
                                                     {P_3|CH_5 ^paragraph 5}
  There was a most ingenious architect who had contrived a new              
method for building houses, by beginning at the roof, and working           
downwards to the foundation, which he justified to me by the like           
practice of those two prudent insects, the bee and the spider.              
  There was a man born blind, who had several apprentices in his own        
condition; their employment was to mix colors for painters, which           
their master taught them to distinguish by feeling and smelling. It         
was indeed my misfortune to find them at that time not very perfect in      
their lessons, and the professor himself happened to be generally           
mistaken; this artist is much encouraged and esteemed by the whole          
fraternity.                                                                 
  In another apartment I was highly pleased with a projector, who           
had found a device of ploughing the ground with hogs, to save the           
charges of plows, cattle, and labor. The method in this: in an acre of      
ground you bury, at six inches distance and eight deep, a quantity          
of acorns, dates, chestnuts, and other mast or vegetables whereof           
these animals are fondest; then you drive six hundred or more of            
them into the field, where in a few days they will root up the whole        
ground in search of their food, and make it fit for sowing, at the          
same time manuring it with their dung. It is true, upon experiment          
they found the charge and trouble very great, and they had little or        
no crop. However, it is not doubted that this invention may be capable      
of great improvement.                                                       
  I went into another room, where the walls and ceiling were all            
hung round with cobwebs, except a narrow passage for the artist to          
go in and out. At my entrance he called aloud to me not to disturb his      
webs. He lamented the fatal mistake the world had been so long in of        
using silk worms, while we had such plenty of domestic insects, who         
infinitely excelled the former, because they understood how to weave        
as well as spin. And he proposed farther that by employing spiders the      
charge of dyeing silks should be wholly saved, whereof I was fully          
convinced when he showed me a vast number of flies most beautifully         
colored, wherewith he fed his spiders, assuring us that the webs would      
take a tincture from them; and as he had them of all hues, he hoped to      
fit everybody's fancy, as soon as he could find proper food for the         
flies, of certain gums, oils, and other glutinous matter to give a          
strength and consistence to the threads.                                    
  There was an astronomer who had undertaken to place a sundial upon        
the great weathercock on the townhouse, by adjusting the annual and         
diurnal motions of the earth and sun, so as to answer and coincide          
with all accidental turnings by the wind.                                   
                                                    {P_3|CH_5 ^paragraph 10}
  I was complaining of a small fit of the colic, upon which my              
conductor led me into a room, where a great physician resided, who was      
famous for curing that disease by contrary operations from the same         
instrument. He had a large pair of bellows with a long slender              
muzzle of ivory. This he conveyed eight inches up the anus, and             
drawing in the wind, he affirmed he could make the guts as lank as a        
dried bladder. But when the disease was more stubborn and violent,          
he let in the muzzle While the bellows were full of wind, which he          
discharged into the body of the patient, then withdrew the                  
instrument to replenish it, clapping his thumb strongly against the         
orifice of the fundament; and this being repeated three or four times,      
the adventitious wind would rush out, bringing the noxious along            
with it (like water put into a pump), and the patient recover. I saw        
him try both experiments upon a dog, but could not discern any              
effect from the former. After the latter, the animal was ready to           
burst, and made so violent a discharge, as was very offensive to me         
and my companions. The dog died on the spot, and we left the doctor         
endeavoring to recover him by the same operation.                           
  I visited many other apartments, but shall not trouble my reader          
with all the curiosities I observed, being studious of brevity.             
  I had hitherto seen only one side of the Academy, the other being         
appropriated to the advancers of speculative learning, of which I           
shall say something when I have mentioned one illustrious person more,      
who is called among them the universal artist. He told us he had            
been thirty years employing his thoughts for the improvement of             
human life. He had two large rooms full of wonderful curiosities,           
and fifty men at work. Some were condensing air into a dry tangible         
substance, by extracting the nitre, and letting the aqueous or fluid        
particles percolate; others softening marbles for pillows and               
pin-cushions; others petrifying the hoofs of a living horse to              
preserve them from foundering. The artist himself was at that time          
busy upon two great designs; the first, to sow land with chaff,             
wherein he affirmed the true seminal virtue to be contained, as he          
demonstrated by several experiments which I was not skillful enough to      
comprehend. The other was, by a certain composition of gums, minerals,      
and vegetables outwardly applied, to prevent the growth of wool upon        
two young lambs; and he hoped in a reasonable time to propagate the         
breed of naked sheep all over the kingdom.                                  
  We crossed a walk to the other part of the Academy, where, as I have      
already said, the projectors in speculative learning resided.               
  The first professor I saw was in a very large room, with forty            
pupils about him. After salutation, observing me to look earnestly          
upon a frame, which took up the greatest part of both the length and        
breadth of the room, he said perhaps I might wonder to see him              
employed in a project for improving speculative knowledge by practical      
and mechanical operations. But the world would soon be sensible of its      
usefulness, and he flattered himself that a more noble exalted thought      
never sprang in any other man's head. Everyone knew how laborious           
the usual method is of attaining to arts and sciences; whereas by           
his contrivance the most ignorant person at a reasonable charge, and        
with a little bodily labor, may write books in philosophy, poetry,          
politics, law, mathematics, and theology, without the least assistance      
from genius or study. He then led me to the frame, about the sides          
whereof all his pupils stood in ranks. It was twenty feet square,           
placed in the middle of the room. The superficies was composed of           
several bits of wood, about the bigness of a die, but some larger than      
others. They were all linked together by slender wires. These bits          
of wood were covered on every square with paper pasted on them, and on      
these papers were written all the words of their language, in their         
several moods, tenses, and declensions, but without any order. The          
professor then desired me to observe, for he was going to set his           
engine at work. The pupils at his command took each of them hold of an      
iron handle, whereof there were forty fixed round the edges of the          
frame, and giving them a sudden turn, the whole disposition of the          
words was entirely changed. He then commanded thirty-six of the lads        
to read the several lines softly as they appeared upon the frame;           
and where they found three or four words together that might make part      
of a sentence, they dictated to the four remaining boys who were            
scribes. This work was repeated three or four times, and at every turn      
the engine was so contrived that the words shifted into new places, as      
the square bits of wood moved upside down.                                  
                                                    {P_3|CH_5 ^paragraph 15}
  Six hours a day the young students were employed in this labor,           
and the professor showed me several volumes in large folio already          
collected, of broken sentences, which he intended to piece together,        
and out of those rich materials to give the world a complete body of        
all arts and sciences; which however might be still improved, and much      
expedited, if the public would raise a fund for making and employing        
five hundred such frames in Lagado, and oblige the managers to              
contribute in common their several collections.                             
                           (SEE PLATE 5)                                    
  He assured me, that this invention had employed all his thoughts          
from his youth, that he had emptied the whole vocabulary into his           
frame, and made the strictest computation of the general proportion         
there is in books between the numbers of particles, nouns, and              
verbs, and other parts of speech.                                           
  I made my humblest acknowledgement to this illustrious person for         
his great communicativeness, and promised if ever I had the good            
fortune to return to my native country, that I would do him justice,        
as the sole inventor of this wonderful machine; the form and                
contrivance of which I desired leave to delineate upon paper, as in         
the figure here annexed. I told him, although it were the custom of         
our learned in Europe to steal inventions from each other, who had          
thereby at least this advantage, that it became a controversy which         
was the right owner, yet I would take such caution, that he should          
have the honor entire without a rival.                                      
  We next went to the school of languages, where three professors           
sat in consultation upon improving that of their own country.               
                                                    {P_3|CH_5 ^paragraph 20}
  The first project was to shorten discourse by cutting                     
polysyllables into one, and leaving out verbs and participles, because      
in reality all things imaginable are but nouns.                             
  The other project was a scheme for entirely abolishing all words          
whatsoever; and this was urged as a great advantage in point of health      
as well as brevity. For it is plain that every word we speak is in          
some degree a diminution of our lungs by corrosion, and consequently        
contributes to the shortening of our lives. An expedient was therefore      
offered, that since words are only names for things, it would be            
more convenient for all men to carry about them such things as were         
necessary to express the particular business they are to discourse on.      
And this invention would certainly have taken place, to the great ease      
as well as health of the subject, if the women, in conjunction with         
the vulgar and illiterate, had not threatened to raise a rebellion,         
unless they might be allowed the liberty to speak with their                
tongues, after the manner of their ancestors; such constant                 
irreconcilable enemies to science are the common people. However, many      
of the most learned and wise adhere to the new scheme of expressing         
themselves by things, which has only this inconvenience attending           
it, that if a man's business be very great, and of various kinds, he        
must be obliged in proportion to carry a greater bundle of things upon      
his back, unless he can afford one or two strong servants to attend         
him. I have often beheld two of those sages almost sinking under the        
weight of their packs, like pedlars among us; who, when they met in         
the streets, would lay down their loads, open their sacks, and hold         
conversation for an hour together; then put up their implements,            
help each other to resume their burdens, and take their leave.              
  But for short conversations a man may carry implements in his             
pockets and under his arms, enough to supply him, and in his house          
he cannot be at a loss. Therefore the room where company meet who           
practise this art, is full of all things ready at hand, requisite to        
furnish matter for this kind of artificial converse.                        
  Another great advantage proposed by this invention was that it would      
serve as a universal language to be understood in all civilized             
nations, whose goods and utensils are generally of the same kind, or        
nearly resembling, so that their uses might easily be comprehended.         
And thus ambassadors would be qualified to treat with foreign               
princes or ministers of state, to whose tongues they were utter             
strangers.                                                                  
  I was at the mathematical school, where the master taught his pupils      
after a method scarce imaginable to us in Europe. The proposition           
and demonstration were fairly written on a thin wafer, with ink             
composed of a cephalic tincture. This the student was to swallow            
upon a fasting stomach, and for three days following eat nothing but        
bread and water. As the wafer digested, the tincture mounted to his         
brain, bearing the proposition along with it. But the success has           
not hitherto been answerable, partly by some error in the quantum or        
composition, and partly by the perverseness of lads, to whom this           
bolus is so nauseous, that they generally steal aside, and discharge        
it upwards before it can operate; neither have they been yet persuaded      
to use so long an abstinence as the prescription required.                  
                                                                            
P_3|CH_6                                                                    
  CHAPTER VI                                                                
-                                                                           
  In the school of political projectors I was but ill entertained, the      
professors appearing in my judgment wholly out of their senses,             
which is a scene that never fails to make me melancholy. These unhappy      
people were proposing schemes for persuading monarchs to choose             
favorites upon the score of their wisdom, capacity, and virtue; of          
teaching ministers to consult the public good; of rewarding merit,          
great abilities, eminent services; of instructing princes to know           
their true interest by placing it on the same foundation with that          
of their people; of choosing for employments persons qualified to           
exercise them; with many other wild impossible chimeras, that never         
entered before into the heart of man to conceive, and confirmed in          
me the old observation, that there is nothing so extravagant and            
irrational which some philosophers have not maintained for truth.           
  But however I shall so far do justice to this part of the Academy,        
as to acknowledge that all of them were not so visionary. There was         
a most ingenious doctor who seemed to be perfectly versed in the whole      
nature and system of government. This illustrious person had very           
usefully employed his studies in finding out effectual remedies for         
all diseases and corruptions, to which the several kinds of public          
administration are subject by the vices or infirmities of those who         
govern, as well as by the licentiousness of those who are to obey. For      
instance, whereas all writers and reasoners have agreed, that there is      
a strict universal resemblance between the natural and the political        
body; can there be anything more evident, than that the health of both      
must be preserved, and the cured by the same prescriptions? It is           
allowed that senates and great councils are often troubled with             
redundant, ebullient, and other peccant humors, with many diseases          
of the head, and more of the heart; with strong convulsions, with           
grievous contractions of the nerves and sinews in both hands, but           
especially the right; with spleen, flatus, vertigos, and deliriums;         
with scrofulous tumors full of fetid purulent matter; with sour frothy      
ructations, with canine appetites and crudeness of digestion,               
besides many others needless to mention. This doctor therefore              
proposed, that upon the meeting of a senate, certain physicians should      
attend at the three first days of their sitting, and at the close of        
each day's debate, feel the pulses of every senator; after which,           
having maturely considered, and consulted upon the nature of the            
several maladies, and the methods of cure, they should on the fourth        
day return to the senate house, attended by their apothecaries              
stored with proper medicines; and before the members sat, administer        
to each of them lenitives, aperitives, abstersives, corrosives,             
restringents, palliatives, laxatives, cephalalgics, icterics,               
apophlegmatics, acoustics, as their several cases required; and             
according as these medicines should operate, repeat, alter, or omit         
them at the next meeting.                                                   
  This project could not be of any great expense to the public, and         
would, in my poor opinion, be of much use for the dispatch of business      
in those countries where senates have any share in the legislative          
power; beget unanimity, shorten debates, open a few mouths which are        
now closed, and close many more which are now open; curb the petulancy      
of the young, and correct the positiveness of the old; rouse the            
stupid, and damp the pert.                                                  
  Again, because it is a general complaint, that the favorites of           
princes are troubled with short and weak memories, the same doctor          
proposed, that whoever attended a first minister, after having told         
his business with the utmost brevity and in the plainest words, should      
at his departure give the said minister a tweak by the nose, or a kick      
in the belly, or tread on his corns, or lug him thrice by both ears,        
or pin into his breech, or pinch his arm black and blue, to prevent         
forgetfulness; and at every levee day repeat the same operation,            
till the business were done or absolutely refused.                          
  He likewise directed, that every senator in the great council of a        
nation, after he had delivered his opinion, and argued in the               
defense of it, should be obliged to give his vote directly contrary;        
because if that were done, the result would infallibly terminate in         
the good of the public.                                                     
                                                     {P_3|CH_6 ^paragraph 5}
  When parties in a state are violent, he offered a wonderful               
contrivance to reconcile them. The method is this. You take a               
hundred leaders of each party, you dispose them into couples of such        
whose heads are nearest of a size; then let two nice operators saw off      
the occiput of each couple at the same time, in such a manner that the      
brain may be equally divided. Let the occiputs thus cut off be              
interchanged, applying each to the head of his opposite party-man.          
It seems indeed to be a work that requires some exactness, but the          
professor assured us that if it were dexterously performed the cure         
would be infallible. For he argued thus; that the two half brains           
being left to debate the matter between themselves within the space of      
one skull, would soon come to a good understanding, and produce that        
moderation, as well as regularity of thinking, so much to be wished         
for in the heads of those who imagine they come into the world only to      
watch and govern its motion: and as to the difference of brains in          
quantity or quality among those who are directors in faction, the           
doctor assured us from his own knowledge that it was a perfect trifle.      
  I heard a very warm debate between two professors, about the most         
commodious and effectual ways and means of raising money without            
grieving the subject. The first affirmed the most just method would be      
to lay a certain tax upon vices and folly, and the sum fixed upon           
every man to be rated after the fairest manner by a jury of his             
neighbors. The second was of an opinion directly contrary, to tax           
those qualities of body and mind for which men chiefly value                
themselves, the rate to be more or less according to the degrees of         
excelling, the decision whereof should be left entirely to their own        
breast. The highest tax was upon men who are the greatest favorites of      
the other sex, and the assessments according to the number and natures      
of the favors they have received; for which they are allowed to be          
their own vouchers. Wit, valor, and politeness were likewise                
proposed to be largely taxed, and collected in the same manner, by          
every person's giving his own word for the quantum of what he               
possessed. But as to honor, justice, wisdom, and learning, they should      
not be taxed at all, because they are qualifications of so singular         
a kind, that no man will either allow them in his neighbor, or value        
them in himself.                                                            
  The women were proposed to be taxed according to their beauty and         
skill in dressing, wherein they had the same privilege with the men,        
to be determined by their own judgment. But constancy, chastity,            
good sense, and good nature were not rated, because they would not          
bear the charge of collecting.                                              
  To keep senators in the interest of the crown, it was proposed            
that the members should raffle for employments, every man first taking      
an oath, and giving security that he would vote for the court, whether      
he won or not; after which the losers had in their turn the liberty of      
raising upon the next vacancy. Thus hope and expectation would be kept      
alive, none would complain of broken promises, but impute their             
disappointments wholly to fortune, whose shoulders are broader and          
stronger than those of a ministry.                                          
  Another professor showed me a large paper of instructions for             
discovering plots and conspiracies against the government. He               
advised great statesmen to examine into the diet of all suspected           
persons; their times of eating; upon which side they lay in bed;            
with which hand they wiped their posteriors; to take a strict view          
of their excrements, and, from the color, the odor, the taste, the          
consistence, the crudeness of maturity of digestion, form a judgment        
of their thoughts and designs. Because men are never so serious,            
thoughtful, and intent, as when they are at stool, which he found by        
frequent experiment; for in such conjunctures, when he used merely          
as a trial to consider which was the best way of murdering the king,        
his ordure would have a tincture of green, but quite different when he      
thought only of raising an insurrection or burning the metropolis.          
                                                    {P_3|CH_6 ^paragraph 10}
  The whole discourse was written with great acuteness, containing          
many observations both curious and useful for politicians, but as I         
conceived not altogether complete. This I ventured to tell the author,      
and offered if he pleased to supply him with some additions. He             
received my proposition with more compliance than is usual among            
writers, especially those of the projecting species, professing he          
would be glad to receive further information.                               
  I told him that in the kingdom of Tribnia, by the natives called          
Langden, where I had sojourned some time in my travels, the bulk of         
the people consist in a manner wholly of discoverers, witnesses,            
informers, accusers, prosecutors, evidences, swearers, together with        
their several subservient and subaltern instruments, all under the          
colors and conduct of ministers of state and their deputies. The plots      
in that kingdom are usually the workmanship of those persons who            
desire to raise their own characters of profound politicians, to            
restore new vigor to a crazy administration, to stifle or divert            
general discontents, to fill their pockets with forfeitures, and raise      
or sink the opinion of public credit, as either shall best answer           
their private advantage. It is first agreed and settled among them,         
what suspected persons shall be accused of a plot; then, effectual          
care is taken to secure all their letters and papers, and put the           
criminals in chains. These papers are delivered to a set of artists,        
very dexterous in finding out the mysterious meanings of words,             
syllables, and letters. For instance, they can discover a                   
close-stool to signify a privy council; a flock of geese, a senate;         
a lame dog, an invader; a codshead, a ---; the plague, a standing           
army; a buzzard, a prime minister; the gout, a high priest; a               
gibbet, a secretary of state; a chamber-pot, a committee of                 
grandees; a sieve, a court lady; a broom, a revolution; a mousetrap,        
an employment; a bottomless pit, the treasury; a sink, the court; a         
cap-and bells, a favorite; a broken reed, a court of justice; an empty      
tun, a general; a running sore, the administration.                         
  When this method fails, they have two others more effectual, which        
the learned among them call acrostics and anagrams. First they can          
decipher all initial letters into political meanings. Thus, N. shall        
signify a plot; B. a regiment of horse; L. a fleet at sea; or secondly      
by transposing the letters of the alphabet in any suspected paper,          
they can discover the deepest designs of a discontented party. So           
for example if I should say in a letter to a friend, Our brother Tom        
has just got the piles, a skillful decipherer would discover that           
the same letters which compose that sentence may be analyzed into           
the following words: Resist -- a plot is brought home -- the tour. And      
this is the anagrammatic method.                                            
  The professor made me great acknowledgments for communicating             
these observations, and promised to make honorable mention of me in         
his treatise.                                                               
  I saw nothing in this country that could invite me to a longer            
continuance, and began to think of returning home to England.               
                                                                            
P_3|CH_7                                                                    
  CHAPTER VII                                                               
-                                                                           
  The continent of which this kingdom is a part extends itself, as I        
have reason to believe, eastward to that unknown tract of America,          
westward to California, and north to the Pacific Ocean, which is not        
above a hundred and fifty miles from Lagado, where there is a good          
port and much commerce with the great island of Luggnagg, situated          
to the northwest about 29 degrees north latitude, and 140 longitude.        
The island of Luggnagg stands southeastward of Japan, about a               
hundred leagues distant. There is a strict alliance between the             
Japanese Emperor and the King of Luggnagg, which affords frequent           
opportunities of sailing from one island to the other. I determined         
therefore to direct my course this way, in order to my return to            
Europe. I hired two mules with a guide to show me the way, and carry        
my small baggage. I took leave of my noble protector, who had shown me      
so much favor and made me a generous present at my departure.               
  My journey was without any accident or adventure worth relating.          
When I arrived at the port of Maldonada (for so it is called) there         
was no ship in the harbor bound for Luggnagg, nor likely to be in some      
time. The town is about as large as Portsmouth. I soon fell into            
some acquaintance, and was very hospitably received. A gentleman of         
distinction said to me that since the ships bound for Luggnagg could        
not be ready in less than a month, it might be no disagreeable              
amusement for me to take a trip to the little island of                     
Glubbdubdrib, about five leagues off to the southwest. He offered           
himself and a friend to accompany me, and that I should be provided         
with a small convenient barque for the voyage.                              
  Glubbdubdrib, as nearly as I can interpret the word, signifies the        
Island of Sorcerers or Magicians. It is about one-third as large as         
the Isle of Wight, and extremely fruitful; it is governed by the            
head of a certain tribe, who are all magicians. This tribe marries          
only among each other, and the eldest in succession is Prince or            
Governor. He has a noble palace, and a park of about three thousand         
acres, surrounded by a wall of hewn stone twenty feet high. In this         
park are several small enclosures for cattle, corn, and gardening.          
  The Governor and his family are served and attended by domestics          
of a kind somewhat unusual. By his skill in necromancy, he has a power      
of calling whom he pleases from the dead, and commanding their service      
for twenty-four hours, but no longer; nor can he call the same persons      
up again in less than three months, except upon very extraordinary          
occasions.                                                                  
  When we arrived at the island, which was about eleven in the              
morning, one of the gentlemen who accompanied me, went to the               
Governor, and desired admittance for a stranger, who came on purpose        
to have the honor of attending on his Highness. This was immediately        
granted, and we all three entered the gate of the palace between two        
rows of guards, armed and dressed after a very antic manner, and            
something in their countenances that made my flesh creep a horror I         
cannot express. We passed through several apartments, between servants      
of the same sort, ranked on each side as before, till we came to the        
chamber of presence, where after three profound obeisances, and a           
few general questions, we were permitted to sit on three stools near        
the lowest step of his Highness's throne. He understood the language        
of Balnibarbi, although it were different from that of his island.          
He desired me to give him some account of my travels; and to let me         
see that I should be treated without ceremony, he dismissed all his         
attendants with a turn of his finger, at which to my great                  
astonishment they vanished in an instant, like visions in a dream,          
when we awake on a sudden. I could not recover myself in some time,         
till the Governor assured me that I should receive no hurt; and             
observing my two companions to be under no concern, who had been often      
entertained in the same manner, I began to take courage, and related        
to his Highness a short history of my several adventures, yet not           
without some hesitation, and frequently looking behind me to the place      
where I had seen those domestic specters. I had the honor to dine with      
the Governor, where a new set of ghosts served up the meat, and waited      
at table. I now observed myself to be less terrified than I had been        
in the morning. I stayed till sunset, but humbly desired his                
Highness to excuse me for not accepting his invitation of lodging in        
the palace. My two friends and I lay at a private house in the town         
adjoining, which is the capital of this little island; and the next         
morning we returned to pay our duty to the Governor, as he was pleased      
to command us.                                                              
                                                     {P_3|CH_7 ^paragraph 5}
  After this manner we continued in the island for ten days, most part      
of every day with the Governor, and at night in our lodging. I soon         
grew so familiarized to the sight of spirits, that the third or fourth      
time they gave me no emotion at all; or if I had any apprehensions          
left, my curiosity prevailed over them. For his Highness the                
Governor ordered me to call up whatever persons I would choose to           
name, and in whatever numbers among all the dead from the beginning of      
the world to the present time, and command them to answer any               
questions I should think fit to ask; with this condition, that my           
questions must be confined within the compass of the times they             
lived in. And one thing I might depend upon, that they would certainly      
tell me truth, for lying was a talent of no use in the lower world.         
  I made my humble acknowledgments to his Highness for so great a           
favor. We were in a chamber from whence there was a fair prospect into      
the park. And because my first inclination was to be entertained            
with scenes of pomp and magnificence, I desired to see Alexander the        
Great, at the head of his army just after the battle of Arbela;             
which upon a notion of the Governor's finger immediately appeared in a      
large field under the window where we stood. Alexander was called up        
into the room; it was with great difficulty that I understood his           
Greek, and had but little of my own. He assured me upon his honor that      
he was not poisoned, but died of a fever by excessive drinking.             
  Next I saw Hannibal passing the Alps, who told me he had not a            
drop of vinegar in his camp.                                                
  I saw Caesar and Pompey at the head of their troops, just ready to        
engage. I saw the former in his last great triumph. I desired that the      
senate of Rome might appear before me in one large chamber, and an          
assembly of somewhat a latter age in counterview in another. The first      
seemed to be an assembly of heroes and demigods; the other a knot of        
pedlars, pickpockets, highway-men, and bullies.                             
  The Governor at my request gave the sign for Caesar and Brutus to         
advance towards us. I was struck with a profound veneration at the          
sight of Brutus, and could easily discover the most consummate virtue,      
the greatest intrepidity and firmness of mind, the truest love of           
his country, and general benevolence for mankind in every lineament of      
his countenance. I observed with much pleasure that these two               
persons were in good intelligence with each other, and Caesar freely        
confessed to me that the greatest actions of his own life were not          
equal by many degrees to the glory of taking it away. I had the             
honor to have much conversation with Brutus; and was told, that his         
ancestor Junius, Socrates, Epaminondas, Cato the younger, Sir Thomas        
More, and himself were perpetually together: a sextumvirate to which        
all the ages of the world cannot add a seventh.                             
                                                    {P_3|CH_7 ^paragraph 10}
  It would be tedious to trouble the reader with relating what vast         
numbers of illustrious persons were called up, to gratify that              
insatiable desire I had to see the world in every period of                 
antiquity placed before me. I chiefly fed my eyes with beholding the        
destroyers of tyrants and usurpers, and the restorers of liberty to         
oppressed and injured nations. But it is impossible to express the          
satisfaction I received in my own mind, after such a manner as to make      
it a suitable entertainment to the reader.                                  
                                                                            
P_3|CH_8                                                                    
  CHAPTER VIII                                                              
-                                                                           
  Having a desire to see those ancients who were most renowned for wit      
and learning, I set apart one day on purpose. I proposed that Homer         
and Aristotle might appear at the head of all their commentators;           
but these were so numerous that some hundreds were forced to attend in      
the court and outward rooms of the palace. I knew and could                 
distinguish those two heroes at first sight, not only from the crowd        
but from each other. Homer was the taller and comelier person of the        
two, walked very erect for one of his age, and his eyes were the            
most quick and piercing I ever beheld. Aristotle stooped much, and          
made use of a staff. His visage was meager, his hair lank and thin,         
and his voice hollow. I soon discovered that both of were perfect           
strangers to the rest of the company, and had never seen or heard of        
them before. And I had a whisper from a ghost, who shall be                 
nameless, that these commentators always kept in the most distant           
quarters from their principals in the lower world, through a                
consciousness of shame and guilt, because they had so horribly              
misrepresented the meaning of those authors to posterity. I introduced      
Didymus and Eustathius to Homer, and prevailed on him to treat them         
better than perhaps they deserved; for he soon found they wanted a          
genius to enter into the spirit of a poet. But Aristotle was out of         
all patience with the account I gave him of Scotus and Ramus, as I          
presented them to him; and he asked them whether the rest of the tribe      
were as great dunces as themselves.                                         
  I then desired the Governor to call up Descartes and Gassendi,            
with whom I prevailed to explain their systems to Aristotle. This           
great philosopher freely acknowledged his own mistakes in natural           
philosophy, because he proceeded in many things upon conjecture, as         
all men must do; and he found, that Gassendi, who had made the              
doctrine of Epicurus as palatable as he could, and the vortices of          
Descartes, were equally exploded. He predicted the same fate to             
attraction, whereof the present learned are such zealous asserters. He      
said that new systems of nature were but new fashions, which would          
vary in every age; and even those who pretend to demonstrate them from      
mathematical principles, would flourish but a short period of time,         
and be out of vogue when that was determined.                               
  I spent five days in conversing with many others of the ancient           
learned. I saw most of the first Roman emperors. I prevailed on the         
Governor to call up Eliogabalus's cooks to dress us a dinner, but they      
could not show us much of their skill, for want of materials. A             
helot of Agesilaus made us a dish of Spartan broth, but I was not able      
to get down a second spoonful.                                              
  The two gentlemen who conducted me to the island were pressed by          
their private affairs to return in three days, which I employed in          
seeing some of the modern dead, who had made the greatest figure for        
two or three hundred years past in our own and other countries of           
Europe; and having been always a great admirer of old illustrious           
families, I desired the Governor call up a dozen or two of kings            
with their ancestors in order for eight or nine generations. But my         
disappointment was grevious and unexpected. For instead of a long           
train with royal diadems, I saw in one family two fiddlers, three           
spruce courtiers, and an Italian prelate. In another, a barber, an          
abbot, and two cardinals. I have too great a veneration for crowned         
heads to dwell any longer on so nice a subject. But as to counts,           
marquesses, dukes, earls, and the like, I was not so scrupulous. And I      
confess it was not without some pleasure that I found myself able to        
trace the particular features, by which certain families are                
distinguished, up to their originals. I could plainly discover from         
whence one family derives a long chin, why a second has abounded            
with knaves for two generations, and fools for two more; why a third        
happened to be crack-brained, and a fourth to be sharpers. Whence it        
came what Polydore Virgil says of a certain great house, Nec vir            
fortis, nec femina casta. How cruelty, falsehood, and cowardice grew        
to be characteristics by which certain families are distinguished as        
much as by their coat of arms. Who first brought the pox into a             
noble house, which has lineally descended in scrofulous tumors to           
their posterity. Neither could I wonder at all this, when I saw such        
an interruption of lineages by pages, lackeys, valets, coachmen,            
gamesters, captains and pickpockets.                                        
  I was chiefly disgusted with modern history. For having strictly          
examined all the persons of greatest name in the courts of princes for      
a hundred years past, I found how the world had been misled by              
prostitute writers, to ascribe the greatest exploits in war to              
cowards, the wisest counsel to fools, sincerity to flatterers, Roman        
virtue to betrayers of their country, piety to atheists, chastity to        
sodomites, informers. How many innocent and excellent persons had been      
condemned to death or banishment, by the practising of great ministers      
upon the corruption of judges, and the malice of factions. How many         
villains had been exalted to the highest places of trust, power,            
dignity, and profit: how great a share in the motions and events of         
courts, councils, and senates might be challenged by bawds, whores,         
pimps, parasites, and buffoons. How low an opinion I had of human           
wisdom and integrity, when I was truly informed of the springs and          
motives of great enterprises and revolutions in the world, and of           
the contemptible accidents to which they owed their success.                
                                                     {P_3|CH_8 ^paragraph 5}
  Here I discovered the roguery and ignorance of those who pretend          
to write anecdotes, or secret history, who send so many kings to their      
graves with a cup of poison; will repeat the discourse between a            
prince and chief minister, where no witness was by; unlock the              
thoughts and cabinets of ambassadors and secretaries of state, and          
have the perpetual misfortune to be mistaken. Here I discovered the         
secret causes of many great events that have surprised the world,           
how a whore can govern the backstairs, the backstairs a council, and        
the council a senate. A general confessed in my presence, that he           
got a victory purely by the force of cowardice and ill conduct; and an      
admiral, that for want of proper intelligence, he beat the enemy to         
whom he intended to betray the fleet. Three kings protested to me,          
that in their whole reigns they never did once prefer any person of         
merit, unless by mistake or treachery of some minister in whom they         
confided; neither would they do it if they were to live again; and          
they showed with great strength of reason that the royal throne             
could not be supported without corruption, because that positive,           
confident, restive temper, which virtue infused into man, was a             
perpetual clog to public business.                                          
  I had the curiosity to enquire in a particular manner, by what            
method great numbers had procured to themselves high titles of              
honor, and prodigious estates; and I confined my inquiry to a very          
modern period; however, without grating upon present times, because         
I would be sure to give no offense even to foreigners (for I hope           
the reader need not be told that I do not in the least intend my own        
country in what I say upon this occasion), a great number of persons        
concerned were called up, and upon a very slight examination,               
discovered such a scene of infamy, that I cannot reflect upon it            
without some seriousness. Perjury, oppression, subornation, fraud,          
panderism, and the like infirmities, were amongst the most excusable        
arts they had to mention, and for these I gave, as it was                   
reasonable, great allowance. But when some confessed they owed their        
greatness and wealth to sodomy or incest, others to the prostituting        
of their own wives and daughters; others to the betraying of their          
country or their prince; some to poisoning, more to the perverting          
of justice in order to destroy the innocent; I hope I may be                
pardoned if these discoveries inclined me little to abate of that           
profound veneration which I am naturally apt to pay to persons of high      
rank, who ought to be treated with the utmost respect due to their          
sublime dignity, by us their inferiors.                                     
  I had often read of some great services done to princes and               
states, and desired to see the persons by whom those services were          
performed. Upon inquiry I was told that their names were to be found        
on no record, except a few of them whom history has represented as the      
vilest rogues and traitors. As to the rest, I had never once heard          
of them. They all appeared with dejected looks, and in the meanest          
habit, most of them telling me they died in poverty and disgrace,           
and the rest on a scaffold or a gibbet.                                     
  Among the rest there was one person whose case appeared a little          
singular. He had a youth about eighteen years old standing by his           
side. He told me he had for many years been commander of a ship, and        
in the sea fight of Actium had the good fortune to break through the        
enemy's great line of battle, sink three of their capital ships, and        
take a fourth, which was the sole cause of Antony's flight, and of the      
victory that ensued; that the youth standing by him, his only son, was      
killed in action. He added that upon the confidence of some merit, the      
war being at an end, he went to Rome, and solicited at the court of         
Augustus to be preferred to a greater ship, whose commander had been        
killed; but without any regard to his pretensions, it was given to a        
youth who had never seen the sea, the son of Libertine, who waited          
on one of the emperor's mistresses. Returning back to his own               
vessel, he was charged with neglect of duty, and the ship given to a        
favorite page of Publicola, the vice-admiral; whereupon he retired          
to a poor farm at a great distance from Rome, and there ended his           
life. I was so curious to know the truth of this story, that I desired      
Agrippa might be called, who was admiral in that fight. He appeared,        
and confirmed the whole account, but with much more advantage to the        
captain, whose modesty had extenuated or concealed a great part of his      
merit.                                                                      
  I was surprised to find corruption grown so high and so quick in          
that empire, by the force of luxury so lately introduced, which made        
me less wonder at many parallel cases in other countries, where             
vices of all kinds have reigned so much longer, and where the whole         
praise as well as pillage has been engrossed by the chief commander,        
who perhaps had the least title to either.                                  
                                                    {P_3|CH_8 ^paragraph 10}
  As every person called up made exactly the same appearance he had         
done in the world, it gave me melancholy reflections to observe how         
much the race of human kind was degenerate among us, within these           
hundred years past. How the pox under all its consequences and              
denominations had altered every lineament of an English countenance,        
shortened the size of bodies, unbraced the nerves, relaxed the              
sinews and muscles, introduced a sallow complexion, and rendered the        
flesh loose and rancid.                                                     
  I descended so low as to desire that some English yeomen of the           
old stamp might be summoned to appear, once so famous for the               
simplicity of their manners, diet and dress, for justice in their           
dealings, for their true spirit of liberty, for their valor and love        
of their country. Neither could I be wholly unmoved after comparing         
the living with the dead, when I considered how all these pure              
native virtues were prostituted for a piece of money by their               
grandchildren, who in selling their votes, and managing at                  
elections, have acquired every vice and corruption that can possibly        
be learned in a court.                                                      
                                                                            
P_3|CH_9                                                                    
  CHAPTER IX                                                                
-                                                                           
  The day of our departure being come, I took leave of his Highness         
the Governor of Glubbdubdrib, and returned with my two companions to        
Maldonada, where after a fortnight's waiting, a ship was ready to sail      
for Luggnagg. The two gentlemen, and some others, were so generous and      
kind as to furnish me with provisions, and see me on board. I was a         
month in this voyage. We had one violent storm and were under a             
necessity of steering westward to get into the tradewind, which             
holds for above sixty leagues. On the 21st of April, 1709, we sailed        
into the river of Clumegnig, which is a seaport town, at the southeast      
point of Luggnagg. We cast anchor within a league of the town, and          
made a signal for a pilot. Two of them came on board in less than half      
an hour, by whom we were guided between certain shoals and rocks,           
which are very dangerous in the passage, to a large basin, where fleet      
may ride in safety within a cable's length of the town wall.                
  Some of our sailors, whether out of treachery or inadvertence, had        
informed the pilots that I was a stranger and a traveler, whereof           
these gave notice to a custom house officer, by whom I was examined         
very strictly upon my landing. This officer spoke to me in the              
language of Balnibarbi, which by the force of much commerce is              
generally understood in that town, especially by seamen, and those          
employed in the customs. I gave him a short account of some                 
particulars, and made my story as plausible and consistent as I             
could; but I thought it necessary to disguise my country, and call          
myself an Hollander, because my intentions were for Japan, and I knew       
the Dutch were the only Europeans permitted to enter into that              
kingdom. I therefore told the officer, that having been shipwrecked         
on the coast of Balnibarbi, and cast on a rock, I was received up           
into Laputa, or the Flying Island (of which he had often heard), and        
was now endeavoring to get to Japan, from whence I might find a             
convenience of returning to my own country. The officer said I must         
be confined till he could receive orders from court, for which he           
would write immediately, and hoped to receive an answer in a                
fortnight. I was carried to a convenient lodging, with a sentry             
placed at the door; however I had the liberty of a large garden, and        
was treated with humanity enough, being maintained all the time at          
the King's charge. I was visited by several persons, chiefly out of         
curiosity, because it was reported that I came from countries very          
remote of which they had never heard.                                       
  I hired a young man who came in the same ship to be an                    
interpreter; he was a native of Luggnagg, but had lived some years          
at Maldonada, and was a perfect master of both languages. By his            
assistance I was able to hold a conversation with those who came to         
visit me; but this consisted only of their questions, and my answers.       
  The dispatch came from court about the time we expected. It               
contained a warrant for conducting me and my retinue to Traldragdubb        
or Trildrogdrib, for it is pronounced both ways as near as I can            
remember, by a party of ten horse. All my retinue was that poor lad         
for an interpreter, whom I persuaded into my service, and at my humble      
request, we had each of us a mule to ride on. A messenger was               
dispatched half a day's journey before us, to give the King notice          
of my approach, and to desire that his Majesty would please appoint         
a day and hour, when it would be his gracious pleasure that I might         
have the honor to lick the dust before his footstool. This is the           
court style, and I found it to be more than matter of form. For upon        
my admittance two days after my arrival, I was commanded to crawl on        
my belly, and lick the floor as I advanced; but on account of my being      
a stranger, care was taken to have it made so clean that the dust           
was not offensive. However, this was a peculiar grace, not allowed          
to any but persons of the highest rank, when they desire an                 
admittance. Nay, sometimes the floor is strewn with dust on purpose,        
when the person to be admitted happens to have powerful enemies at          
court. And I have seen a great lord with his mouth so crammed, that         
when he had crept to the proper distance from the throne, he was not        
able to speak a word. Neither is there any remedy, because it is            
capital for those who receive an audience to spit or wipe their mouths      
in his Majesty's presence. There is indeed another custom, which I          
cannot altogether approve of. When the king has a mind to put any of        
his nobles to death in a gentle indulgent manner, he commands to            
have the floor strewn with a certain brown powder, of a deadly              
composition, which being licked up infallibly kills him in twenty-four      
hours. But in justice to this prince's great clemency, and the care he      
has of his subject's lives (wherein it were much to be wished that the      
monarchs of Europe would imitate him), it must be mentioned for his         
honor, that strict orders are given to have the infected parts of           
the floor well after every such execution; which if his domestics           
neglect, they are in danger of incurring his royal displeasure. I           
myself heard him give directions, that one of his pages should be           
whipped, whose turn it was to give notice about washing the floor           
after an execution, but maliciously had omitted it; by which neglect a      
young lord of great hopes coming to an audience, was unfortunately          
poisoned, although the King at that time had not design against his         
life. But this good prince was so gracious as to forgive the poor page      
his whipping, upon promise that he would do so no more, without             
special orders.                                                             
  To return from this digression; when I had crept within four yards        
of the throne, I raised myself gently upon my knees, and then striking      
my forehead seven times on the ground, I pronounced the following           
words, as they had been taught me the night before, Ickpling                
gloffthrobb squutserumm blhiop mlashnalt zwin tnodbalkguffh                 
slhiophad gurdlubh asht. This is the compliment established by the          
laws of the land for all persons admitted to the King's presence. It        
may be rendered into English thus: May your Celestial Majesty               
outlive the sun, eleven moons and a half. To this the King returned         
some answer, which although I could not understand, yet I replied as I      
had been directed: Fluft drin yalerick dwuldom prastrad mirpush, which      
properly signifies, My tongue is in the mouth of my friend, and by          
this expression was meant that I desired leave to bring my                  
interpreter; whereupon the young man already mentioned was accordingly      
introduced, by whose intervention I answered as many questions as           
his Majesty could put in over an hour. I spoke in the Balnibarbian          
tongue, and my interpreter delivered my meaning in that of Luggnagg.        
                                                     {P_3|CH_9 ^paragraph 5}
  The King was much delighted with my company, and ordered his              
Bliffmarklub or High Chamberlain, to appoint a lodging in the court         
for me and my interpreter, with a daily allowance for my table, and         
a large purse of gold for my common expenses.                               
  I stayed three months in this country out of perfect obedience to         
his Majesty, who was pleased highly to favor me, and made me very           
honorable offers. But I thought it more consistent with prudence and        
justice to pass the remainder of my days with my wife and family.           
                                                                            
P_3|CH_10                                                                   
  CHAPTER X                                                                 
-                                                                           
  The Luggnaggians are a polite and generous people, and although they      
are not without some share of that pride which is peculiar to all           
Eastern countries, yet they show themselves courteous to strangers,         
especially such who are countenanced by the court. I had many               
acquaintance among persons of the best fashion, and being always            
attended by my interpreter, the conversation we had was not                 
disagreeable.                                                               
  One day in much good company I was asked by a person of quality,          
whether I had seen any of their Struldbrugs, or Immortals. I said I         
had not, and desired he would explain to me what he meant by such an        
appellation applied to a mortal creature. He told me, that                  
sometimes, though very rarely, a child happened to be born in a family      
with a red circular spot in the forehead, directly over the left            
eyebrow, which was an infallible mark that it should never die. The         
spot, as he described it, was about the compass of a silver                 
threepence, but in the course of time grew larger, and changed its          
color; for at twelve years old it became green, so continued till           
twenty-five, then turned to a deep blue; at forty-five it grew coal         
black, and as large as an English shilling, but never admitted any          
further alteration. He said these births were so rare, that he did not      
believe there could be above eleven hundred struldbrugs of both             
sexes in the whole kingdom, of which he computed about fifty in the         
metropolis, and among the rest a young girl born about three years          
ago. That these productions were not peculiar to any family, but a          
mere effect of chance; and the children of the struldbrugs                  
themselves were equally mortal with the rest of the people.                 
  I freely own myself to have been struck with inexpressible delight        
upon hearing this account, and the person who gave it me happening          
to understand the Balnibarbian language, which I spoke very well, I         
could not forbear breaking out into expressions perhaps a little too        
extravagant. I cried out as in a rapture: Happy nation where every          
child hath at least a chance for being immortal! Happy people who           
enjoy so many living examples of ancient virtue, and have masters           
ready to instruct them in the wisdom of all former ages! but, happiest      
beyond all comparison are those excellent struldbrugs, who being            
born exempt from that universal calamity of human nature, have their        
minds free and disengaged, without the weight and depression of             
spirits caused by the continual apprehension of death. I discovered my      
admiration that I had not observed any of these illustrious persons at      
court; the black spot on the forehead being so remarkable a                 
distinction, that I could not have easily overlooked and it was             
impossible that his Majesty, a most judicious prince, should not            
provide himself with a good number of such wise and able counselors.        
Yet perhaps the virtue of those reverend sages was too strict for           
the corrupt and libertine manners of a court. And we often find by          
experience that young men are too opinionative and volatile to be           
guided by the sober dictates of their seniors. However, since the King      
was pleased to allow me access to his royal person, I was resolved          
upon the very first occasion to deliver my opinion to him on this           
matter freely and at large, by the help of my interpreter; and whether      
he would please to take my advice or not, yet in one thing I was            
determined, that his Majesty having frequently offered me an                
establishment in this country, I would with great thankfulness              
accept the favor, and pass my life here in the conversation of those        
superior beings the struldbrugs, if they would please to admit me.          
  The gentleman to whom I addressed my discourse, because (as I have        
already observed) he spoke the language of Balnibarbi, said to me with      
a sort of a smile, which usually arises from pity to the ignorant,          
that he was glad of any occasion to keep me among them, and desired my      
permission to explain to the company what I had spoke. He did so,           
and they talked together for some time in their own language,               
whereof I understood not a syllable, neither could I observe by             
their countenances what impression my discourse had made on them.           
After a short silence, the same person told me that his friends and         
mine (so he thought fit to express himself) were very much pleased          
with the judicious remarks I had made on the great happiness and            
advantages of immortal life; and they were desirous to know in a            
particular manner, what scheme of living I should have formed to            
myself, if it had fallen to my lot to have been born a struldbrug.          
  I answered, it was easy to be eloquent on so copious and                  
delightful a subject, especially to me who have been often apt to           
amuse myself with visions of what I should do if I were a king, a           
general, or a great lord; and upon this very case I had frequently run      
over the whole system how I should employ myself and pass the time          
if I were sure to live for ever.                                            
                                                    {P_3|CH_10 ^paragraph 5}
  That if it had been my good fortune to come into the world a              
struldbrug, as soon as I could discover my own happiness by                 
understanding the difference between life and death, I would first          
resolve by an arts and methods whatsoever to procure myself riches. In      
the pursuit of which by thrift and management, I might reasonably           
expect, in about two hundred years to be the wealthiest man in the          
kingdom. In the second place, I would from my earliest youth apply          
myself to the study of arts and sciences, by which I should arrive          
in time to excell all others in learning. Lastly, I would carefully         
record every action and event of consequence that happened in the           
public, impartially draw the characters of the several successions          
of princes and great ministers of state, with my own observations on        
every point. I would exactly set down the several changes in                
customs, language, fashions of dress, diet and diversions. By all           
which acquirements, I should be a living treasury of knowledge and          
wisdom, and certainly become the oracle of the nation.                      
  I would never marry after threescore, but live in an hospitable           
manner, yet still on the saving side. I would entertain myself in           
forming and directing the minds of hopeful young men, by convincing         
them from my own remembrance, experience and observation, fortified by      
numerous examples, of the usefulness of virtue in public and private        
life. But my choice and constant companions should be a set of my           
own immortal brotherhood, among whom I would elect a dozen from the         
most ancient down to my own contemporaries. Where any of these              
wanted fortunes, I would provide them with convenient lodges round          
my own estate, and have some of them always at my table, only mingling      
a few of the most valuable among you mortals, whom length of time           
would harden me to lose with little or no reluctance, and treat your        
posterity after the same manner; just as a man diverts himself with         
the annual succession of pinks and tulips in his garden, without            
regretting the loss of those which withered the preceding year.             
  These struldbrugs and I would mutually communicate our                    
observations and memorials through the course of time, remark the           
several gradations by which corruption steals into the world, and           
oppose it in every step, by giving perpetual warning and instruction        
to mankind; which, added to the strong influence of our own example,        
would probably prevent that continual degeneracy of human nature so         
justly complained of in all ages.                                           
  Add to all this the pleasure of seeing the various revolutions of         
states and empires, the changes in the lower and upper world,               
ancient cities in ruins, and obscure villages become the seats of           
kings. Famous rivers lessening into shallow brooks, the ocean               
leaving one coast dry, and overwhelming another; the discovery of many      
countries yet unknown. Barbarity over-running the politest nations,         
and the most barbarous become civilized. I should then see the              
discovery of the longitude, the perpetual motion, the universal             
medicine, and many other great inventions brought to the utmost             
perfection.                                                                 
  What wonderful discoveries should we make in astronomy, by outliving      
and confirming our own predictions, by observing the progress and           
returns of comets, with the changes of motion in the sun, moon, and         
stars.                                                                      
                                                   {P_3|CH_10 ^paragraph 10}
  I enlarged upon many other topics, which the natural desire of            
endless life and sublunary happiness could easily furnish me with.          
When I had ended, and the sum of my discourse had been interpreted          
as before, to the rest of the company, there was a good deal of talk        
among them the language of the country, not without some laughter at        
my expense. At last the same gentleman who had been my interpreter          
said he was desired by the rest to set me right in a few mistakes,          
which I had fallen into through the common imbecility of human nature,      
and upon that allowance was less answerable for them. That this             
breed of struldbrugs was peculiar to their country, for there were          
no such people either in Balnibarbi or Japan, where he had the honor        
to be ambassador from his Majesty, and found the natives in both those      
kingdoms very hard to believe that the fact was possible; and it            
appeared from my astonishment when he first mentioned the matter to         
me, that I received it as a thing wholly new, and scarcely to be            
credited. That in the two kingdoms above mentioned, where during his        
residence he had conversed very much, he observed long life to be           
the universal desire and wish of mankind. That whoever had one foot in      
the grave was sure to hold back the other as strongly as he could.          
That the oldest had still hopes of living one day longer, and looked        
on death as the greatest evil, from which nature always prompted him        
to retreat; only in this island of Luggnagg the appetite for living         
was not so eager, from the continual example of the struldbrugs before      
their eyes.                                                                 
  That the system of living contrived by me was unreasonable and            
unjust, because it supposed a perpetuity of youth, health, and              
vigor, which no man could be so foolish to hope, however extravagant        
he may be in his wishes. That the question therefore was not whether a      
man would choose to be always in the prime of youth, attended with          
prosperity and health, but how he would pass a perpetual life under         
all the usual disadvantages which old age brings along with it. For         
although few men will avow their desires of being immortal upon such        
hard conditions, yet in the two kingdoms before mentioned of                
Balnibarbi and Japan, he observed that every man desired to put off         
death for some time longer, let it approach ever so late; and he            
rarely heard of any man who died willingly, except he were incited          
by the extremity of grief or torture. And he appealed to me whether in      
those countries I had traveled as well as my own, I had not observed        
the same general disposition.                                               
  After this preface he gave me a particular account of the                 
struldbrugs among them. He said they commonly acted like mortals, till      
about thirty years old, after which by degrees they grew melancholy         
and dejected, increasing in both till they came to fourscore. This          
he learned from their own confession; for otherwise there not being         
above two or three of that species born in an age, they were too few        
to form a general observation by. When they came to fourscore years,        
which is reckoned the extremity of living in this country, they had         
not only all the follies and infirmities of other old men, but many         
more which arose from the dreadful prospect of never dying. They            
were not only opinionative, peevish, covetous, morose, vain,                
talkative, but uncapable of friendship, and dead to all natural             
affection, which never descended below their grandchildren. Envy and        
impotent desires are their prevailing passions. But those objects           
against which their envy principally directed, are the vices of the         
younger sort, and the deaths of the old. By reflecting on the               
former, they find themselves cut off from all possibility of pleasure;      
and whenever they see a funeral, they lament and repine that others         
have gone to a harbor of rest, to which they themselves never can hope      
to arrive. They have no remembrance of anything but what they               
learned and observed in their youth and middle age, and even that is        
very imperfect. And for the truth or particulars of any fact, it is         
safer to depend on common traditions than upon their best                   
recollections. The least miserable among them appear to be those who        
turn to dotage, and entirely lose their memories; these meet with more      
pity and assistance, because they want many bad qualities which abound      
in others.                                                                  
  If a struldbrug happen to marry one of his own kind, the marriage         
is dissolved of course by the courtesy of the kingdom, as soon as           
the younger of the two comes to be fourscore. For the law thinks it         
a reasonable indulgence, that those who are condemned without any           
fault of their own to a perpetual continuance in the world, should not      
have their misery doubled by the load of a wife.                            
  As soon as they have completed the term of eighty years, they are         
looked on as dead in law; their heirs immediately succeed to their          
estates, only a small pittance is reserved for their support, and           
the poor ones are maintained at the public charge. After that period        
they are held incapable of any employment of trust or profit, they          
cannot purchase lands or take leases, neither are they allowed to be        
witnesses in any cause, either civil or criminal, not even for the          
decision of meers and bounds.                                               
                                                   {P_3|CH_10 ^paragraph 15}
  At ninety they lose their teeth and hair, they have at that age no        
distinction of taste, but eat and drink whatever they can get, without      
relish or appetite. The diseases they were subject to still continue        
without increasing or diminishing. In talking they forget the common        
appellation of things, and the names of persons, even of those who are      
their nearest friends and relations. For the same reason they never         
can amuse themselves with reading, because their memory will not serve      
to carry them from the beginning of a sentence to the end; and by this      
defect they are deprived of the only entertainment whereof they             
might otherwise be capable.                                                 
  The language of this country being always upon the flux, the              
struldbrugs of one age do not understand those of another, neither are      
they able after two hundred years to hold any conversation (farther         
than by a few general words) with their neighbors the mortals; and          
thus they lie under the disadvantage of living like foreigners in           
their own country.                                                          
  This was the account given me of the struldbrugs, as near as I can        
remember. I afterwards saw five or six of different ages, the youngest      
not above two hundred years old, who were brought to me at several          
times by some of my friends; but although they were told that I was         
a great traveler, and had seen all the world, they had not the least        
curiosity to ask me a question; only desired I would give them              
slumskudask, or a token of remembrance, which is a modest way of            
begging, to avoid the law that strictly forbids it, because they are        
provided for by the public, although indeed with a very scanty              
allowance.                                                                  
  They are despised and hated by all sorts of people; when one of them      
is born, it is reckoned ominous, and their birth is recorded very           
particularly; so that you may know their age by consulting the              
registry, which however hath not been kept above a thousand years           
past, or at least hath been destroyed by time or public                     
disturbances. But the usual way of computing how old they are, is by        
asking them what kings or great persons they can remember, and then         
consulting history, for infallibly the last prince in their mind did        
not begin his reign after they were fourscore years old.                    
  They were the most mortifying sight I ever beheld, and the women          
more horrible than the men. Besides the usual deformities in extreme        
old age, they acquired an additional ghastliness in proportion to           
their number of years, which is not to be described; and among half         
a dozen, I soon distinguished which was the eldest, although there          
were not above a century or two between them.                               
                                                   {P_3|CH_10 ^paragraph 20}
  The reader will easily believe, that from what I had heard and seen,      
my keen appetite for perpetuity of life was much abated. I grew             
heartily ashamed of the pleasing visions I had formed, and thought          
no tyrant could invent a death into which I would not run with              
pleasure from such a life. The king heard of all that had passed            
between me and my friends upon this occasion, and rallied me very           
pleasantly, wishing I would send a couple of struldbrugs to my own          
country, to arm our people against the fear of death; but this it           
seems is forbidden by the fundamental laws of the kingdom, or else I        
should have been well content with the trouble and expense of               
transporting them.                                                          
  I could not but agree that the laws of this kingdom relating to           
the struldbrugs, were founded upon the strongest reasons, and such          
as any other country would be under the necessity of enacting in the        
like circumstances. Otherwise, as avarice is the necessary                  
consequent of old age, those immortals would in time become                 
proprietors of the whole nation, and engross the civil power, which,        
for want of abilities to manage, must end in the ruin of the public.        
                                                                            
P_3|CH_11                                                                   
  CHAPTER XI                                                                
-                                                                           
  I thought this account of the Struldbrugs might be some                   
entertainment to the reader, because it seems to be a little out of         
the common way, at least I do not remember to have met the like in any      
book of travels that has come to my hands; and if I am deceived, my         
excuse must be, that it is necessary for travelers, who describe the        
same country, very often to agree in dwelling on the same particulars,      
without deserving the censure of having borrowed or transcribed from        
those who wrote before them.                                                
  There is indeed a perpetual commerce between this kingdom and the         
great empire of Japan, and it is very probable that the Japanese            
authors may have given some account of the struldbrugs; but my stay in      
Japan was so short, and I was so entirely a stranger to that language,      
that I was not qualified to make any inquiries. But I hope the Dutch        
upon this notice will be curious and able enough to supply my defects.      
  His Majesty having often pressed me to accept some employment in his      
court, and finding me absolutely determined to return to my native          
country, was pleased to give me his license to depart, and honored          
me with a letter of recommendation under his own hand to the Emperor        
of Japan. He likewise presented me with four hundred and forty-four         
large pieces of gold (this nation delighting in even numbers), and a        
red diamond which I sold in England for eleven hundred pounds.              
  On the 6th day of May, 1709 I took a solemn leave of his Majesty and      
all my friends. This prince was so gracious as to order a guard to          
conduct me Glanguenstald, which is a royal port to the southwest            
part of the island. In six days I found a vessel ready to carry me          
to Japan, and spent fifteen days in the voyage. We landed at a small        
port town called Xamoschi, situated on the southeast part of Japan;         
the town lies on the western point, where there is a narrow strait,         
leading northward into a long arm of the sea, upon the northwest            
part of which, Yedo the metropolis stands. At landing, I showed the         
custom house officers my letter from the King of Luggnagg to his            
Imperial Majesty. They knew the seal perfectly well; it was as broad        
as the palm of my hand. The impression was, a King lifting up a lame        
beggar from the earth. The magistrates of the town hearing of my            
letter, received me as a public minister. They provided me with             
carriages and servants, and bore my charges to Yedo, where I was            
admitted to an audience, and delivered my letter, which was opened          
with great ceremony, and explained to the Emperor by an interpreter,        
who then gave me notice by his Majesty's order, that I should               
signify my request, and, whatever it were, it should be granted for         
the sake of his royal brother of Luggnagg. This interpreter was a           
person employed to transact affairs with the Hollanders; he soon            
conjectured by my countenance that I was a European, and therefore          
repeated his Majesty's commands in Low Dutch, which he spoke perfectly      
well. I answered (as I had before determined) that I was a Dutch            
merchant, shipwrecked in a very remote country, from whence I traveled      
by sea and land to Luggnagg, and then took shipping for Japan, where I      
knew my countrymen often traded, and with some of these I hoped to get      
an opportunity of returning into Europe: I therefore most humbly            
entreated his royal favor, to give order that I should be conducted in      
safety to Nangasac. To this I added another petition, that for the          
sake of my patron the King of Luggnagg, his Majesty would condescend        
to excuse my performing the ceremony imposed on my countrymen, of           
trampling upon the crucifix, because I had been thrown into his             
kingdom by my misfortunes, without any intention of trading. When this      
latter petition was interpreted to the Emperor, he seemed a little          
surprised, and said he believed I was the first of my countrymen who        
ever made any scruple in this point, and that he began to doubt             
whether I was a real Hollander or not, but rather suspected I must          
be a Christian. However, for the reasons I had offered, but chiefly to      
gratify the King of Luggnagg by an uncommon mark of his favor, he           
would comply with the singularity of my humor; but the affair must          
be managed with dexterity, and his officers should be commanded to let      
me pass as it were by forgetfulness. For he assured me, that if the         
secret should be discovered by my countrymen the Dutch, they would cut      
my throat in the voyage. I returned my thanks by the interpreter for        
so unusual a favor, and some troops being at that time on their             
march to Nangasac, the commanding officer had orders to convey me safe      
thither, with particular instructions about the business of the             
crucifix.                                                                   
  On the 9th day of June, 1709, I arrived at Nangasac, after a very         
long and troublesome journey. I soon fell into the company of some          
Dutch sailors belonging to the Amboyna, of Amsterdam, a stout ship          
of 450 tons. I had lived long in Holland, pursuing my studies at            
Leyden, and I spoke Dutch well. The seamen soon knew from whence I          
came last: they were curious to inquire into my voyages and course          
of life. I made up a story as short and probable as I could, but            
concealed the greatest part. I knew many persons in Holland; I was          
able to invent names for my parents, whom I pretended to be obscure         
people in the province of Gelderland. I would have given the captain        
(one Theodorus Vangrult) what he pleased to ask for my voyage to            
Holland; but understanding I was a surgeon, he was contented to take        
half the usual rate, on condition that I would serve him in the way of      
my calling. Before we took shipping, I was often asked by some of           
the crew whether I had performed the ceremony above mentioned. I            
evaded the question by general answers, that I had satisfied the            
Emperor and court in all particulars. However, a malicious rogue of         
a skipper went to an officer, and pointing to me, told him I had not        
yet trampled on the crucifix: but the other, who had received               
instructions to let me pass, gave the rascal twenty strokes on the          
shoulders with a bamboo, after which I was no more troubled with            
such questions.                                                             
                                                    {P_3|CH_11 ^paragraph 5}
  Nothing happened worth mentioning in this voyage. We sailed with a        
fair wind to the Cape of Good Hope, where we stayed only to take in         
fresh water. On the 10th of April we arrived safe at Amsterdam, having      
lost only three men by sickness in the voyage, and a fourth who fell        
from the foremast into the sea, not far from the coast of Guinea. From      
Amsterdam I soon after set sail for England in a small vessel               
belonging to that city.                                                     
  On the 16th of April, 1710, we put in at the Downs. I landed the          
next morning, and saw once more my native country after an absence          
of five years and six months complete. I went straight to Redriff,          
where I arrived the same day at two in the afternoon, and found my          
wife and family in good health.                                             
-                                                                           
               THE END OF THE THIRD PART                                    
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                    PART IV                                 
                                                                            
                           A VOYAGE TO THE HOUYHNHNMS                       
                                                                            
                                                                            
                                  (SEE PLATE 6)                             
                                                                            
P_4|CH_1                                                                    
  CHAPTER I                                                                 
-                                                                           
  I continued at home with my wife and children about five months in a      
very happy condition, if I could have learned the lesson of knowing         
when I was well. I left my poor wife big with child, and accepted an        
advantageous offer made me to be Captain of the Adventure, a stout          
merchantman of 350 tons: for I understood navigation well, and being        
grown weary of a surgeon's employment at sea, which however I could         
exercise upon occasion, I took a skillful young man of that calling,        
one Robert Purefoy, into my ship. We set sail from Portsmouth upon the      
seventh day of August, 1710; on the fourteenth we met with Captain          
Pocock of Bristol, at Teneriffe, who was going to the bay of Campechy,      
to cut logwood. On the sixteenth he was parted from us by a storm; I        
heard since my return that his ship foundered, and none escaped but         
one cabin boy. He was an honest man, and a good sailor, but a little        
too positive in his own opinions, which was the cause of his                
destruction, as it has been of several others. For if he had                
followed my advice, he might have been safe at home with his family at      
this time, as well as myself.                                               
  I had several men die in my ship of calentures, so that I was forced      
to get recruits out of Barbadoes, and the Leeward Islands, where I          
touched by the direction of the merchants who employed me, which I had      
soon too much cause to repent: for I found afterwards that most of          
them had been buccaneers. I had fifty hands on board, and my orders         
were that I should trade with the Indians in the South Sea, and make        
what discoveries I could. These rogues whom I had picked up                 
debauched my other men, and they all formed a conspiracy to seize           
the ship and secure me; which they did one morning, rushing into my         
cabin, and binding me hand and foot, threatening to throw me                
overboard, if I offered to stir. I told them I was their prisoner           
and would submit. This they made me swear to do, and then they unbound      
me, only fastening one of my legs with a chain near my bed, and placed      
a sentry at my door with his piece charged, who was commanded to shoot      
me dead, if I attempted my liberty. They sent me down victuals and          
drink, and took the government of the ship to themselves. Their design      
was to turn pirates, and plunder the Spaniards, which they could not        
do, till they got more men. But first they resolved to sell the             
goods in the ship, and then go to Madagascar for recruits, several          
among them having died since my confinement. They sailed many weeks,        
and traded with the Indians, but I knew not what course they took,          
being kept a close prisoner in my cabin, and expecting nothing less         
than to be murdered, as they often threatened me.                           
  Upon the ninth day of May, 1711, one James Welch came down to my          
cabin; and said he had orders from the Captain to set me ashore. I          
expostulated with him but in vain; neither would he so much as tell me      
who their new Captain was. They forced me into the longboat, letting        
me put on my best suit of clothes, which were as good as new, and a         
small bundle of linen, but no arms except my hanger; and they were          
so civil as not to search my pockets, into which I conveyed what money      
I had, with some other little necessaries. They rowed about a               
league, and then set me down on a strand. I desired them to tell me         
what country it was. They all swore they knew no more than myself, but      
said that the Captain (as they called him) was resolved, after they         
had sold the lading, to get rid of me in the first place where they         
could discover land. They pushed off immediately, advising me to            
make haste, for fear of being overtaken by the tide, and so bade me         
farewell.                                                                   
  In this desolate condition I advanced forward, and soon got upon          
ground, where I sat down on a bank to rest myself, and consider what I      
had best do. When I was a little refreshed I went up into the country,      
resolving to deliver myself to the first savages I should meet, and         
purchase my life from them by some bracelets, glass rings, and other        
toys which sailors usually provide themselves with in those voyages,        
and whereof I had some about me. The land was divided by long rows          
of trees, not regularly planted, but naturally growing; there was           
plenty of grass, and several fields of oats. I walked very                  
circumspectly for fear of being surprised, or suddenly shot with an         
arrow from behind or on either side. I fell into a beaten road,             
where I saw many tracks of human feet, and some of cows, but most of        
horses. At last I beheld several animals in a field, and one or two of      
the same kind sitting in trees. Their shape was very singular and           
deformed, which a little discomposed me, so that I lay down behind a        
thicket to observe them better. Some of them coming forward near the        
place where I lay, gave me an opportunity of distinctly marking             
their form. Their heads and breasts were covered with a thick hair,         
some frizzled and others lank; they had beards like goats, and a            
long ridge of hair down their backs and the foreparts of their legs         
and feet, but the rest of their bodies were bare, so that I might           
see their skins, which were of a brown buff color. They had no              
tails, nor any hair at all on their buttocks, except about the anus;        
which, I presume, nature had placed there to defend them as they sat        
on the ground; for this posture they used, as well as lying down and        
often stood on their hind feet. They climbed high trees, as nimbly          
as a squirrel, for they had strong extended claws before and behind,        
terminating in sharp points, and hooked. They would often spring and        
bound and leap with prodigious agility. The females were not so             
large as the males; they had long lank hair on their heads, but none        
on their faces, nor anything more than a sort of down on the rest of        
their bodies, except about the anus, and pudenda. Their dugs hung           
between their forefeet, and often reached almost to the ground as they      
walked. The hair of both sexes was of several colors, brown, red,           
black, and yellow. Upon the whole, I never beheld in all my travels so      
disagreeable an animal, nor one against which I naturally conceived so      
strong an antipathy. So that thinking I had seen enough, full of            
contempt and aversion, I got up and pursued the beaten road, hoping it      
might direct me to the cabin of some Indian. I had not got far when         
I met one of these creatures full in my way, and coming up directly to      
me. The ugly monster, when he saw me, distorted several ways every          
feature of his visage, and stared as at an object he had never seen         
before; then approaching nearer, lifted up his forepaw, whether out of      
curiosity or mischief, I could not tell. But I drew my hanger, and          
gave him a good blow with the flat side of it, for I dare not strike        
him with the edge, fearing the inhabitants might be provoked against        
me, if they should come to know that I had killed or maimed any of          
their cattle. When the beast felt the smart, he drew back, and              
roared so loud that a herd of at least forty came flocking about me         
from the next field, howling and making odious faces; but I ran to the      
body of a tree, and leaning my back against it, kept them off by            
waving my hanger. Several of this cursed brood getting hold of the          
branches behind, leaped up into the tree, from where they began to          
discharge their excrements on my head; however, I escaped pretty well,      
by sticking close to the stem of the tree, but was almost stifled with      
the filth, which fell about me on every side.                               
  In the midst of this distress, I observed them all to run away of         
a sudden as fast as they could, at which I ventured to leave the tree,      
and pursue the road, wondering what it was that could put them into         
this fright. But looking on my left hand, I saw a horse walking softly      
in the field; which my persecutors having sooner discovered, was the        
cause of their flight. The horse started a little when he came near         
me, but soon recovering himself, looked full in my face with                
manifest tokens of wonder; he viewed my hands and feet, walking             
round me several times. I would have pursued my journey, but he placed      
himself directly in the way, yet looking with a very mild aspect,           
never offering the least violence. We stood gazing at each other for        
some time; at last I took the boldness to reach my hand towards his         
neck, with a design to stroke it, using the common style and whistle        
of jockeys when they are going to handle a strange horse. But this          
animal seeming to receive my civilities with disdain, shook his             
head, and bent his brows, softly raising up his right forefoot to           
remove my hand. Then he neighed three or four times, but in so              
different a cadence, that I almost began to think he was speaking to        
himself in some language of his own.                                        
                                                     {P_4|CH_1 ^paragraph 5}
  While he and I were thus employed, another horse came up; who             
applying himself to the first in a very formal manner, they gently          
struck each other's right hoof before, neighing several times by            
turns, and varying the sound, which seemed to be almost articulate.         
They went some paces off, as if it were to confer together, walking         
side by side, backward and forward, like persons deliberating upon          
some affair of weight, but often turning their eyes towards me, as          
it were to watch that I might not escape. I was amazed to see such          
actions and behavior in brute beasts, and concluded with myself,            
that if the inhabitants of this country were endued with a                  
proportionable degree of reason, they must needs be the wisest              
people upon earth. This thought gave me so much comfort, that I             
resolved to go forward until I could discover some house or village,        
or meet with any of the natives, leaving the two horses to discourse        
together as they pleased. But the first, who was a dapple gray,             
observing me to steal off, neighed after me in so expressive a tone,        
that I fancied myself to understand what he meant; whereupon I              
turned back, and came near him, to expect his farther commands, but         
concealing my fear as much as I could, for I began to be in some pain,      
how this adventure might terminate; and the reader will easily believe      
I did not much like my present situation.                                   
  The two horses came up close to me, looking with great earnestness        
upon my face and hands. The gray steed rubbed my hat all round with         
his right forehoof, and discomposed it so much that I was forced to         
adjust it better, by taking it off, and settling it again; whereat          
both he and his companion (who was a brown bay) appeared to be much         
surprised; the latter felt the lappet of my coat, and finding it to         
hang loose about me, they both looked with new signs of wonder. He          
stroked my right hand, seeming to admire the softness and color; but        
he squeezed it so hard between his hoof and his pastern, that I was         
forced to roar; after which they both touched me with all possible          
tenderness. They were under great perplexity about my shoes and             
stockings, which they felt very often, neighing to each other, and          
using various gestures, not unlike those of a philosopher, when he          
would attempt to solve some new and difficult phenomenon.                   
  Upon the whole, the behavior of these animals was so orderly and          
rational, so acute and judicious, that I at last concluded they must        
needs be magicians, who had thus metamorphosed themselves upon some         
design, and seeing a stranger the way, were resolved to divert              
themselves with him; or perhaps were really amazed at the sight of a        
man so very different in habit, feature, and complexion from those who      
might probably live so remote a climate. Upon the strength of this          
reasoning, I ventured to address them in the following manner:              
Gentlemen, if you be conjurers, as I have good cause to believe, you        
can understand any language; therefore I make bold to let your              
worships know that I am a poor distressed Englishman, driven by his         
misfortunes upon your coast, and I entreat one of you, to let me            
ride upon his back, as if he were a real horse, to some house or            
village where I can be relieved. In return of which favor I will            
make you a present of this knife and bracelet (taking them out of my        
pocket). The two creatures stood silent while I spoke, seeming to           
listen with great attention; and when I had ended, they neighed             
frequently towards each other, as if they were engaged in serious           
conversation. I plainly observed, that their language expressed the         
passions very well, and the words might with little pains be                
resolved into an alphabet more easily than the Chinese.                     
  I could frequently distinguish the word Yahoo, which was repeated by      
each of them several times; and although it was impossible for me to        
conjecture what it meant, yet while the two horses were busy in             
conversation, I endeavored to practice this word upon my tongue; and        
as soon as they were silent, I boldly pronounced Yahoo in a loud            
voice, imitating, at the same time, as near as I could, the neighing        
of a horse; at which they were both visibly surprised, and the gray         
repeated the same word twice, as if he meant to teach me the right          
accent, wherein I spoke after him as well as I could, and found myself      
perceivably to improve every time, though very far from any degree          
of perfection. Then the bay tried me with a second word, much harder        
to be pronounced; but reducing it to the English orthography, may be        
spelt thus, Houyhnhnm. I did not succeed in this so well as the             
former, but after two or three farther trials, I had better fortune;        
and they both appeared amazed at my capacity.                               
  After some further discourse, which I then conjectured might              
relate to me, the two friends took their leave, with the same               
compliment of striking each other's hoof; and the gray made me signs        
that I should walk before him, wherein I thought it prudent to comply,      
till I could find a better director. When I offered to slacken my           
pace, he would cry Hhuun, Hhuun; I guessed his meaning, and gave him        
to understand as well as I could, that I was weary, and not able to         
walk faster; upon which he would stand a while to let me rest.              
                                                                            
P_4|CH_2                                                                    
  CHAPTER II                                                                
-                                                                           
  Having traveled about three miles, we came to a long kind of              
building, made of timber stuck in the ground, and wattled across;           
the roof was low, and covered with straw. I now began to be a little        
comforted, and took out some toys, which travelers usually carry for        
presents to the savage Indians of America and other parts, in hopes         
the people of the house would be thereby encouraged to receive me           
kindly. The horse made me a sign to go in first; it was a large room        
with a smooth clay floor, and a rack and manger extending the whole         
length on one side. There were three nags, and two mares, not               
eating, but some of them sitting down upon their hams, which I very         
much wondered at; but wondered more to see the rest employed in             
domestic business. These seemed but ordinary cattle; however, this          
confirmed my first opinion, that a people who could so far civilize         
brute animals, must needs excel in wisdom all the nations of the            
world. The gray came in just after, and thereby prevented any ill           
treatment which the others might have given me. He neighed to them          
several times in a style of authority, and received answers.                
  Beyond this room there were three others, reaching the length of the      
house, to which you passed through three doors, opposite to each            
other, in the manner of a vista; we went through the second room            
towards the third; here the gray walked in first, beckoning me to           
attend: I waited in the second room, and got ready my presents for the      
master and mistress of the house: they were two knives, three               
bracelets of pearl, a small looking glass, and a bead necklace. The         
horse neighed three or four times, and I waited to hear some answers        
in a human voice, but I heard no other returns than in the same             
dialect, only one or two a little shriller than his. I began to             
think that this house must belong to some person of great note among        
them, because there appeared so much ceremony before I could gain           
admittance. But, that a man of quality should be served all by horses,      
was beyond my comprehension. I feared my brain was disturbed by my          
sufferings and misfortunes: I roused myself, and looked about me in         
the room where I was left alone; this was furnished like the first,         
only after a more elegant manner. I rubbed my eyes often, but the same      
objects still occurred. I pinched my arms and sides to awake myself,        
hoping I might be in a dream. then absolutely concluded, that all           
these appearances could be nothing else but necromancy and magic.           
But I had no time to pursue these reflections; for the gray horse came      
to the door, and made me a sign to follow him into the third room,          
where I saw a very comely mare, together with a colt and foal, sitting      
on their haunches, upon mats of straw, not unartfuUy made, and              
perfectly neat and clean.                                                   
  The mare soon after my entrance, rose from her mat, and coming up         
close, after having nicely observed my hands and face, gave me a            
most contemptuous look; then turning to the horse, I heard the word         
Yahoo often repeated betwixt them; the meaning of which word I could        
not then comprehend, although it were the first I had learned to            
pronounce; but I was soon better informed, to my everlasting                
mortification: for the horse beckoning to me with his head, and             
repeating the word Hhuun, Hhuun, as he did upon the road, which I           
understood was to attend him, led me out into a kind of court, where        
was another building at some distance from the house. Here we entered,      
and I saw three of these detestable creatures, whom I first met             
after my landing, feeding upon roots, and the flesh of some animals,        
which I afterwards found to be that of asses and dogs, and now and          
then a cow dead by accident or discase. were all tied by the neck with      
strong withes, fastened to a beam; they held their food between the         
claws of their forefeet, and tore it with their teeth.                      
  The master horse ordered a sorrel nag, one of his servants, to untie      
the largest of these animals, and take him into the yard. The beast         
and I were brought close together, and our countenances diligently          
compared, both by master and servant, who thereupon repeated several        
times the word Yahoo. My horror and astonishment are not to be              
described, when I observed in this abominable animal a perfect human        
figure: the face of it indeed was flat and broad, the nose                  
depressed, the lips large, and the mouth wide. But these differences        
are common to all savage nations, where the lineaments of the               
countenance are distorted by the natives suffering their infants to         
lie groveling on the earth, or by carrying them on their backs,             
nuzzling with their face against the mother's shoulders. The fore feet      
of the Yahoo differed from my hands in nothing else but the length          
of the nails, the coarseness and brownness of the palms, and the            
hairiness on the backs. There was the same resemblance between our          
feet, with the same differences, which I knew very well, though the         
horses did not, because of my shoes and stockings; the same in every        
part of our bodies, except as to hairiness and color, which I have          
already described.                                                          
  The great difficulty that seemed to stick with the two horses, was        
to see the rest of my body so very different from that of a Yahoo, for      
which I was obliged to my clothes whereof they had no conception.           
The sorrel nag offered me a root, which he held (after their manner,        
as we shall describe in its proper place) between his hoof and              
pastern; I took it in my hand, and having smelt it, returned it to him      
again as civilly as I could. He brought out of the Yahoo's kennel a         
piece of ass's flesh, but it smelt so offensively that I turned from        
it with loathing: he then threw it to the Yahoo, by whom it was             
greedily devoured. He afterwards showed me a wisp of hay, and a             
fetlock full of oats; but I shook my head, to signify that neither          
of these were food for me. And indeed, I now apprehended that I must        
absolutely starve, if I did not get to some of my own species; for          
as to those filthy Yahoos, although there were few greater lovers of        
mankind, at that time, than myself, yet I confess I never saw any           
sensitive being so detestable on all accounts; and the more I came          
near them, the more hateful they grew, while I stayed in that country.      
This the master horse observed by my behavior, and therefore sent           
the Yahoo back to his kennel. He then put his fore hoof to his              
mouth, at which I was much surprised, although he did it with ease,         
and with a motion that appeared perfectly natural, and made other           
signs to know what I would eat; but I could not return him such an          
answer as he was able to apprehend; and if he had understood me, I did      
not see how it was possible to contrive any way for finding myself          
nourishment. While we were thus engaged, I observed a cow passing           
by, whereupon I pointed to her, and expressed a desire to let me go         
and milk her. This had its effect; for he led me back into the              
house, and ordered a mareservant to open a room, where a good store of      
milk lay in earthen and wooden vessels, after a very orderly and            
cleanly manner. She gave me a large bowl full, of which I drank very        
heartily, and found myself well refreshed.                                  
                                                     {P_4|CH_2 ^paragraph 5}
  About noon I saw coming towards the house a kind of vehicle, drawn        
like a sledge by four Yahoos. There was in it an old steed, who seemed      
to be of quality; he alighted with his hind feet forward, having by         
accident got a hurt in his left fore foot. He came to dine with our         
horse, who received him with great civility. They dined in the best         
room, and had oats boiled in milk for the second course, which the old      
horse ate warm, but the rest cold. Their mangers were placed                
circular in the middle of the room, and divided into several                
partitions, round which they sat on their haunches upon bosses of           
straw. In the middle was a large rack with angles answering to every        
partition of the manger; so that each horse and mare ate their own          
hay, and their own mash of oats and milk, with much decency and             
regularity. The behavior of the young colt and foal appeared very           
modest, and that of the master and mistress extremely cheerful and          
complaisant to their guest. The gray ordered me to stand by him, and        
much discourse passed between him and his friend concerning me, as I        
found by the stranger's often looking on me, and the frequent               
repetition of the word Yahoo.                                               
  I happened to wear my gloves, which the master gray observing,            
seemed perplexed, discovering signs of wonder what I had done to my         
fore feet; he put his hoof three or four times to them, as if he would      
signify that I should reduce them to their former shape, which I            
presently did, pulling off both my gloves, and putting them into my         
pocket. This occasioned farther talk, and I saw the company was             
pleased with my behavior, whereof I soon found the good effects. I was      
ordered to speak the few words I understood, and while they were at         
dinner the master taught the names for oats, milk, fire, water, and         
some others; which I could readily pronounce after him, having from my      
youth a great facility in learning languages.                               
  When dinner was done the master horse took me aside, and by signs         
and words made me understand the concern that he was in, that I had         
nothing to eat. Oats in their tongue are called hlunnh. This word I         
pronounced two or three times; for although I had refused them at           
first, yet upon second thoughts I considered that I could contrive          
to make of them a kind of bread, which might be sufficient with milk        
to keep me alive, till I could make my escape to some other country         
and to creatures of my own species. The horse immediately ordered a         
white mare-servant of his family to bring me a good quantity of oats        
in a sort of wooden tray. These I heated before the fire as well as         
I could, and rubbed them till the husks came off, which I made a shift      
to winnow from the grain; I ground and beat them between two stones,        
then took water, and made them into a paste or cake, which I toasted        
at the fire, and ate warm with milk. It was at first a very insipid         
diet, though common enough in many parts of Europe, but grew tolerable      
by time; and having been often reduced to hard fare in my life, this        
was not the first experiment I had made how easily nature is                
satisfied. And I cannot but observe, that I never had one hour's            
sickness while I stayed in this island. 'Tis true, I sometimes made         
a shift to catch a rabbit or bird by springes made of Yahoos' hairs,        
and I often gathered wholesome herbs, which I boiled, or ate as salads      
with my bread, and now and then, for a rarity, I made a little butter,      
and drank the whey. I was at first at a great loss for salt; but            
custom soon reconciled the want of it; and I am confident that the          
frequent use of salt among us is an effect of luxury, and was first         
introduced only as a provocative to drink; except where it is               
necessary for preserving of flesh in long voyages, or in places remote      
from great markets. For we observe no animal to be fond of it but man:      
and as to myself, when I left this country, it was a great while            
before I could endure the taste of it in anything that I ate.               
  This is enough to say upon the subject of my diet, wherewith other        
travelers fill their books, as if the readers were personally               
concerned whether we fared well or ill. However, it necessary to            
mention this matter, lest the world should think it impossible that         
I could find sustenance for three years in such a country, and among        
such inhabitants.                                                           
  When it grew towards evening, the master horse ordered a place for        
me to lodge in; it was but six yards from the house, and separated          
from the stable of the Yahoos. Here I got some straw, and covering          
myself with my own clothes, slept very sound. But I was in a short          
time better accommodated, as the reader shall know hereafter, when I        
come to treat more particularly about my way of living.                     
                                                                            
P_4|CH_3                                                                    
  CHAPTER III                                                               
-                                                                           
  My principal endeavor was to learn the language, which my master          
(for so I shall henceforth call him) and his children, and every            
servant of his house, were desirous to teach me. For they looked            
upon it as a prodigy that a brute animal should discover such marks of      
a rational creature. I pointed to every thing and inquired the name of      
it, which I wrote down in my journal book when I was alone, and             
corrected my bad accent by desiring those of the family to pronounce        
it often. In this employment, a sorrel nag, one of the under servants,      
was ready to assist me.                                                     
  In speaking they pronounce through the nose and throat, and their         
language approaches nearest to the High Dutch or German of any I            
know in Europe; but is much more graceful and significant. The Emperor      
Charles made almost the same observation, when he said that if he were      
to speak to his horse it should be in High Dutch.                           
  The curiosity and impatience of my master were so great, that he          
spent many hours of his leisure to instruct me. He was convinced (as        
he afterwards told me) that I must be a Yahoo, but my teachableness,        
civility, and cleanliness, astonished him; which were qualities             
altogether so opposite to those animals. He was most perplexed about        
my clothes, reasoning sometimes with himself whether they were a            
part of my body; for I never pulled them off till the family were           
asleep, and got them on before they waked in the morning. My master         
was eager to learn from where I came, how I acquired those appearances      
of reason which I discovered in all my actions, and to know my story        
from my own mouth, which he hoped he should soon do by the great            
proficiency I made in learning and pronouncing their words and              
sentences. To help my memory, I formed all I learned into the               
English alphabet, and wrote the words down with the translations. Ibis      
last after some time I ventured to do in my master's presence. It cost      
me much trouble to explain to him what I was doing; for the                 
inhabitants have not the least idea of books or literature.                 
  In about ten weeks time I was able to understand most of his              
questions, and in three months could give him some tolerable                
answers. He was extremely curious to know from what part of the             
country I came, and how I was taught to imitate a rational creature;        
because the Yahoos (whom he saw I exactly resembled in my head, hands,      
and face, that were only visible), with some appearance of cunning,         
and the strongest disposition to mischief, were observed to be the          
most unteachable of all brutes. I answered that I came over the sea         
from a far place, with many others of my own kind, in a great hollow        
vessel made of the bodies of trees. That my companions forced me to         
land on this coast, and then left me to shift for myself. It was            
with some difficulty, and by the help of many signs, that I brought         
him to understand me. He replied, that I must needs be mistaken, or         
that I said the thing which was not. (For they have no word in their        
language to express lying or falsehood.) He knew it was impossible          
that there could be a country beyond the sea, or that a parcel of           
brutes could move a wooden vessel whither they pleased upon water.          
He was sure no Houyhnhnm alive could make such a vessel, nor would          
trust Yahoos to manage it.                                                  
  The word Houyhnhnm, in their tongue, signifies a horse, and in its        
etymology, the perfection of nature. I told my master, that I was at a      
loss for expression, but would improve as fast as I could; and hoped        
in a short time I should be able to tell him wonders: he was pleased        
to direct his own mare, his colt and foal, and the servants of the          
family, to take all opportunities of instructing me, and every day for      
two or three hours he was at the same pains himself. Several horses         
and mares of quality in the neighborhood came often to our house            
upon the report spread of a wonderful Yahoo, that could speak like a        
Houyhnhnm, and seemed in his words and actions to discover some             
glimmerings of reason. These delighted to converse with me: they put        
many questions, and received such answers as I was able to return.          
By all these advantages I made so great a progress that in five months      
from my arrival I understood whatever was spoke, and could express          
myself tolerably well.                                                      
                                                     {P_4|CH_3 ^paragraph 5}
  The Houyhnhnms who came to visit my master with the design of seeing      
and talking with me, could hardly believe me to be a right Yahoo,           
because my body had a different covering from others of my kind.            
They were astonished to observe me without the usual hair or skin,          
except on my head, face, and hands; but I discovered that secret to my      
master, upon an accident which happened about a fortnight before.           
  I have already told the reader, that every night when the family          
were gone to bed it was my custom to strip and cover myself with my         
clothes. It happened one morning early, that my master sent for me          
by the sorrel nag, who was his valet; when he came I was fast               
asleep, my clothes fallen off on one side, and my shirt above my            
waist. I awakened at the noise he made, and observed him to deliver         
his message in some disorder; after which he went to my master, and in      
a great fright gave him a very confused account of what he had seen.        
This I presently discovered; for going as soon as I was dressed to pay      
my attendance upon his Honor, he asked me the meaning of what his           
servant had reported, that I was not the same thing when I slept as         
I appeared to be at other times; that his valet assured him, some part      
of me was white, some yellow, at least not so white, and some brown.        
  I had hitherto concealed the secret of my dress, in order to              
distinguish myself as much as possible from that cursed race of             
Yahoos; but now I found it in vain to do so any longer. Besides, I          
considered that my clothes and shoes would soon wear out, which             
already were in a declining condition, and must be supplied by some         
contrivance from the hides of Yahoos or other brutes; whereby the           
whole secret would be known. I therefore told my master that in the         
country from which I came those of my kind always covered their bodies      
with the hairs of certain animals prepared by art, as well for decency      
as to avoid the inclemencies of air, both hot and cold; of which, as        
to my own person, I would give him immediate conviction, if he pleased      
to command me; only desiring his excuse, if I did not expose those          
parts that nature taught us to conceal. He said my discourse was all        
very strange, but especially the last part; for he could not                
understand why nature should teach us to conceal what nature had            
given. That neither himself nor family were ashamed of any parts of         
their bodies; but however I might do as I pleased. Whereupon I first        
unbuttoned my coat and pulled it off. I did the same with my                
waistcoat; I drew off my shoes, stockings, and breeches. I let my           
shirt down to my waist, and drew up the bottom, fastening it like a         
girdle about my middle to hide my nakedness.                                
  My master observed the whole performance with great signs of              
curiosity and admiration. He took up all my clothes in his pastern,         
one piece after another, and examined them diligently; he then stroked      
my body very gently and looked round me several times, after which          
he said it was plain I must be a perfect Yahoo; but that I differed         
very much from the rest of my species, in the softness and whiteness        
and smoothness of my skin, my want of hair in several parts of my           
body, the shape and shortness of my claws behind and before, and my         
affectation of walking continually on my two hind feet. He desired          
to see no more, and gave me leave to put on my clothes again, for I         
was shuddering with cold.                                                   
  I expressed my uneasiness at his giving me so often the                   
appellation of Yahoo, an odious animal for which I had so utter a           
hatred and contempt. I begged he would forbear applying that word to        
me, and take the same order in his family, and among his friends            
whom he suffered to see me. I requested likewise that the secret of my      
having a false covering to my body might be known to none but himself,      
at least as long as my present clothing should last; for as to what         
the sorrel nag his valet had observed, his Honor might command him          
to conceal it.                                                              
                                                    {P_4|CH_3 ^paragraph 10}
  All this my master very graciously consented to, and thus the secret      
was kept till my clothes began to wear out, which I was forced to           
supply by several contrivances that shall hereafter be mentioned. In        
the meantime he desired I would go on with my utmost diligence to           
learn their language, because he was more astonished at my capacity         
for speech and reason than at the figure of my body, whether it were        
covered or not; adding that he waited with some impatience to hear the      
wonders which I promised to tell him.                                       
  From thenceforward he doubled the pains he had been at to instruct        
me; he brought me into all company, and made them treat me with             
civility, because, as he told them privately, this would put me into        
good humor and make me more diverting.                                      
  Every day when I waited on him, beside the trouble he was at in           
teaching, he would ask me several questions concerning myself, which I      
answered as well as I could; and by these means he had already              
received some general ideas, though very imperfect. It would be             
tedious to relate the several steps by which I advanced to a more           
regular conversation: but the first account I gave of myself in any         
order and length, was to this purpose:                                      
  That I came from a very far country, as I already had attempted to        
tell him, with about fifty more of my own species; that we traveled         
upon the seas, in a great hollow vessel made of wood, and larger            
than his Honor's house. I described the ship to him in the best             
terms I could, and explained by the help of my handkerchief displayed,      
how it was driven forward by the wind. That upon a quarrel among us, I      
was set on shore on this coast, where I walked forward without knowing      
whither, till he delivered me from the persecution of those                 
execrable Yahoos. He asked me who made the ship, and how it was             
possible that the Houyhnhnms of my country would leave it to the            
management of brutes? My answer was that I dare proceed no further          
in my relation, unless he would give me his word and honor that he          
would not be offended, and then I would tell him the wonders I had          
so often promised. He agreed; and I went on by assuring him that the        
ship was made by creatures was myself, who in all the countries I           
had traveled, as well as in my own, were the only governing,                
rational animals; and that upon my arrival here I was as much               
astonished to see the Houyhnhnms act like rational beings, as he or         
his friends could be finding some marks of reason in a creature he was      
pleased to call a Yahoo, to which I owned my resemblance in every           
part, but could not account for their degenerate and brutal nature.         
I said farther that if good fortune ever restored me to my native           
country, to relate my travels here, as I resolved to do, everybody          
would believe that I said the thing which was not; that I invented the      
story out of my own head; and with all possible respect to himself,         
his family and friends, and under his promise of not being offended,        
our countrymen would hardly think it probable, that a Houyhnhnm should      
be the presiding creature of a nation, and a Yahoo the brute.               
                                                                            
P_4|CH_4                                                                    
  CHAPTER IV                                                                
-                                                                           
  My master heard me with great appearances of uneasiness in his            
countenance, because doubting, or not believing, are so little known        
in this country, that the inhabitants cannot tell how to behave             
themselves under such circumstances. And I remember in frequent             
discourses with my master concerning the nature of manhood in other         
parts of the world, having occasion to talk of lying and false              
representation, it was with much difficulty that he comprehended            
what I meant, although he had otherwise a most acute judgment. For          
he argued thus: that the use of speech was to make us understand one        
another, and to receive information of facts; now if anyone said the        
thing which was not, these ends were defeated; because I cannot             
properly be said to understand him; and I am so far from receiving          
information, that he leaves me worse than in ignorance, for I am led        
to believe a thing black when it is white, and short when it is             
long. And these were all the notions he had concerning that faculty of      
lying, so perfectly well understood among human creatures.                  
  To return from this digression; when I asserted that the Yahoos were      
the only governing animals in my country, which my master said was          
altogether past his conception, he desired to know whether we had           
Houyhnhnms among us, and what was their employment: I told him we           
had great numbers, that in summer they grazed in the fields, and in         
winter were kept in houses, with hay and oats, where Yahoo servants         
were employed to rub their skins smooth, comb their manes, pick             
their feet, serve them with food, and make their beds. I understand         
you well, said my master, it is now very plain, from all you have           
spoken, that whatever share of reason the Yahoos pretend to, the            
Houyhnhnms are your masters; I heartily wish our Yahoos would be so         
tractable. I begged his Honor would please to excuse me from                
proceeding any farther, because I was very certain that the account he      
expected from me would be highly displeasing. But he insisted in            
commanding me to let him know the best and the worst: I told him he         
should be obeyed. I owned that the Houyhnhnms among us, whom we called      
horses, were the most generous and comely animals we had, that they         
excelled in strength and swiftness; and when they belonged to               
persons of quality, employed in traveling, racing, or drawing               
chariots, they were treated with much kindness and till they fell into      
diseases or became foundered in the feet; and then they were sold, and      
used to all kind of drudgery till they died; after which their skins        
were stripped and sold for what they were worth, and their bodies left      
to be devoured by dogs and birds of prey. But the common race of            
horses had not so good fortune, being kept by farmers and carriers,         
and other mean people, who put them to great labor, and fed them            
worse. I described, as well as I could, our way of riding, the shape        
and use of a bridle, a saddle, a spur, and a whip, of harness and           
wheels. I added that we fastened plates of a certain hard substance         
called iron at the bottom of their feet, to preserve their hoofs            
from being broken by the stony ways on which we often traveled.             
  My master, after some expressions of great indignation, wondered how      
we dared to venture upon a Houyhnhnm's back, for he was sure that           
the weakest servant in his house would be able to shake off the             
strongest Yahoo, or by lying down and rolling on his back squeeze           
the brute to death. I answered that our horses were trained up from         
three or four years old to the several uses we intended them for; that      
if any of them proved intolerably vicious, they were employed for           
carriages; that they were severely beaten while they were young, for        
any mischievous tricks; that the males, designed for common use of          
riding or draught, were generally castrated about two years after           
their birth, to take down their spirits and make them more tame and         
gentle; that they were indeed sensible of rewards and punishments; but      
his Honor would please to consider, that they had not the least             
tincture of reason any more than the Yahoos in this country.                
  It put me to the pains of many circumlocutions to give my master a        
right idea of what I spoke; for their language does not abound in           
variety of words, because their wants and passions are fewer than           
among us. But it is impossible to represent his noble resentment at         
our savage treatment of the Houyhnhnm race, particularly after I had        
explained the manner and use of castrating horses among us, to              
hinder them from propagating their kind, and to render them more            
servile. He said if it were possible there could be any country             
where Yahoos alone were endued with reason, they certainly must be the      
governing animal, because reason will in time always prevail against        
brutal strength. But considering the frame of our bodies, and               
especially of mine, he thought no creature of equal bulk was so ill         
contrived, for employing that reason in the common offices of life;         
whereupon he desired to know whether those among whom I lived               
resembled me or the Yahoos of his country. I assured him, that I was        
as well shaped as most of my age; but the younger and the females were      
much more soft and tender, and the skins of the latter generally as         
white as milk. He said I differed indeed from other Yahoos, being much      
more cleanly, and not altogether so deformed, but in point of real          
advantage he thought I differed for the worse. That my nails were of        
no use either to my fore or hind feet; as to my fore feet, he could         
not properly call them by that name, for he never observed me to            
walk upon them; that they were too soft to bear the ground; that I          
generally went with them uncovered, neither was the covering I              
sometimes wore on them of the same shape or so strong as that on my         
feet behind. That I could not walk with any security, for if either of      
my hind feet slipped, I must inevitably fall. He then began to find         
fault with other parts of my body, the flatness of my face, the             
prominence of my nose, my eyes placed directly in front, so that I          
could not look on either side without turning my that I was not able        
to feed myself without lifting one of my fore feet to my mouth; and         
therefore nature had placed these joints to answer that necessity.          
He knew not what could be the use of those several clefts and               
divisions in my feet behind; that these were too soft to bear the           
hardness and sharpness of stones without a covering made from the skin      
of some other brute; that my whole body wanted a fence against heat         
cold, which I was forced to put on and off every day with                   
tediousness and trouble. And lastly that he observed every animal in        
this country naturally to abhor the Yahoos, whom the weaker avoided         
and the stronger drove from them. So that supposing us to have the          
gift of reason, he could not see how it were possible to cure that          
natural antipathy which every creature discovered against us; nor           
consequently, how we could tame and render them serviceable.                
However, he would (as he said) debate the matter no farther, because        
he was more desirous to know my own story, the country where I was          
born, and the several actions and events of my life before I came           
here.                                                                       
  I assured him how extremely desirous I was that he should be              
satisfied on every point; but I doubted much whether it would be            
possible for me to explain myself on several subjects whereof his           
Honor could have no conception, because I saw nothing in his country        
to which I could resemble them. That however I would do my best, and        
strive to express myself by similitudes, humbly desiring his                
assistance when I wanted proper words; which he was pleased to promise      
me.                                                                         
                                                     {P_4|CH_4 ^paragraph 5}
  I said my birth was of honest parents in an island called England,        
which was remote from this country, as many days' journey as the            
strongest of his Honor's servants could travel in the annual course of      
the sun. That I was bred a surgeon, whose trade it is to cure wounds        
and hurts in the body, got by accident or violence; that my country         
was governed by a female man, whom we called a Queen. That I left it        
to get riches, whereby I might maintain myself and family when I            
should return. That in my last voyage I was Commander of the ship, and      
had about fifty Yahoos under me, many of which died at sea, and I           
was forced to supply them by others picked out from several nations.        
That our ship was twice in danger of being sunk; the first time by a        
great storm, and the second, by striking against a rock. Here my            
master interposed, by asking me how I could persuade strangers out          
of different countries to venture with me, after the losses I had           
sustained, and the hazards I had run. I said they were fellows of           
desperate fortunes, forced to fly from the places of their birth, on        
account of their poverty or their crimes. Some were undone by               
lawsuits; others spent all they had in drinking, whoring, and gaming;       
others fled for treason; many for murder, theft, poisoning, robbery,        
perjury, forgery, coining false money, for committing rapes or              
sodomy, for flying from their colors, or deserting to the enemy, and        
most of them had broken prison; none of these dared return to their         
native countries for fear of being hanged, or of starving in a jail;        
and therefore were under the necessity of seeking a livelihood in           
other places.                                                               
  During this discourse my master was pleased to interrupt me               
several times; I had made use of many circumlocutions in describing to      
him the nature of the several crimes, for which most of our crew had        
been forced to fly their country. This labor took up several days'          
conversation before he was able to comprehend me. He was wholly at a        
loss to know what could be the use or necessity of practicing those         
vices. To clear up which I endeavored to give some ideas of the desire      
of power and riches, of the terrible effects of lust, intemperance,         
malice and envy. All this I was forced to define and describe by            
putting of cases, and making of suppositions. After which, like one         
whose imagination was struck with something never seen or heard of          
before, he would lift up his eyes with amazement and indignation.           
Power, government, war, law, punishment, and a thousand other things        
had no terms wherein that language could express them, which made           
the difficulty almost insuperable to give my master any conception          
of what I meant. But being of an excellent understanding, much              
improved by contemplation and converse, he at last arrived at a             
competent knowledge of what human nature in our parts of the world          
is capable to perform, and desired I would give him some particular         
account of that land which we call Europe, but especially of my own         
country.                                                                    
                                                                            
P_4|CH_5                                                                    
  CHAPTER V                                                                 
-                                                                           
  The reader may please to observe, that the following extract of many      
conversations I had with my master, contains a summary of the most          
material points which were discoursed at several times for above two        
years; his Honor often desiring fuller satisfaction as I farther            
improved in the Houyhnhnm tongue. I laid before him, as well as I           
could, the whole state of Europe; I discoursed of trade and                 
manufactures, of arts and sciences; and the answers I gave to all           
the questions he made, as they arose upon several subjects, were a          
fund of conversation not to be exhausted. But I shall here only set         
down the substance of what passed between us concerning my own              
country, reducing it into order as well as I can, without any regard        
to time or other circumstances, while I strictly adhere to truth. My        
only concern is that I shall hardly be able to do justice to my             
master's arguments and expressions, which must needs suffer by my want      
of capacity, as well as by a translation into our barbarous English.        
  In obedience therefore to his Honor's commands, I related to him the      
Revolution under the Prince of Orange; the long war with France             
entered into by the said prince, and renewed by his successor the           
present Queen, wherein the greatest powers of Christendom were              
engaged, and which still continued: I computed at his request that          
about a million of Yahoos might have been killed in the whole progress      
of it, and perhaps a hundred or more cities taken, and thrice as            
many ships burnt or sunk.                                                   
  He asked me what were the usual causes or motives that made one           
country go to war with another. I answered they were innumerable,           
but I should only mention a few of the chief. Sometimes the ambition        
of princes, who never think they have land or people enough to govern;      
sometimes the corruption of ministers, who engage their master in a         
war in order to stifle or divert the clamor of the subjects against         
their evil administration. Difference in opinions has cost many             
millions of lives: for instance, whether flesh be bread, or bread be        
flesh; whether the juice of a certain berry be blood or wine;               
whether whistling be vice or a virtue; whether it be better to kiss         
a post, or throw it into the fire; what is the best color for a             
coat, whether black, white, red, or gray; and whether it should be          
long or short, narrow or wide, dirty or clean; with many more. Neither      
are any wars so furious and bloody, or of so long continuance, as           
those occasioned by difference in opinion, especially if it be in           
things indifferent.                                                         
  Sometimes the quarrel between two princes is to which of them             
shall dispossess a third of his dominions, where neither of them            
pretend to any right. Sometimes one prince quarrels with another,           
for fear the other should quarrel with him. Sometimes a war is entered      
upon, because the enemy is too strong, and sometimes because he is too      
weak. Sometimes our neighbors want the things which we have, or have        
the things which we want; and we both fight, till they take ours or         
give us theirs. It is a very justifiable cause of a war to invade a         
country after the people have been wasted by famine, destroyed by           
pestilence, or embroiled by factions among themselves. It is                
justifiable to enter into war against our nearest ally, when one of         
his towns lies convenient for us, or a territory of land, that would        
render our dominions round and complete. If a prince sends forces into      
a nation where the people are poor and ignorant, he may lawfully put        
half of them to death, and make slaves of the rest, in order to             
civilize and reduce them from their barbarous way of living. It is a        
very kingly, honorable, and frequent practice, when one prince desires      
the assistance of another to secure him against an invasion, that           
the assistant, when he has driven out the invader, should seize on the      
dominions himself, and kill, imprison or banish the prince he came          
to relieve. Alliance by blood or marriage is a frequent cause of war        
between princes; and the nearer the kindred is, the greater is their        
disposition to quarrel: poor nations are hungry, and rich nations           
are proud; and pride and hunger will ever be at variance. For these         
reasons, the trade of a soldier is held the most honorable of all           
others; because a soldier is a Yahoo hired to kill in cold blood as         
many of his own species, who have never offended him, as possibly he        
can.                                                                        
  There is likewise a kind of beggarly princes in Europe, not able          
to make war by themselves, who hire out their troops to richer              
nations, for so much a day to each man; of which they keep                  
three-fourths to themselves, and it is the best part of their               
maintenance; such are those in Germany and other northern parts of          
Europe.                                                                     
                                                     {P_4|CH_5 ^paragraph 5}
  What you have told me (said my master) upon the subject of war, does      
indeed discover most admirably the effects of that reason you               
pretend to: however, it is happy that the shame is greater than the         
danger; and that nature has left you utterly uncapable of doing much        
mischief.                                                                   
  For your mouths lying flat with your faces, you can hardly bite each      
other to any purpose, unless by consent. Then as to the claws upon          
your feet before and behind, they are so short and tender, that one of      
our Yahoos would drive a dozen of yours before him. And therefore in        
recounting the numbers of those who have been killed in battle, I           
cannot but think that you have said the thing which is not.                 
  I could not forbear shaking my head and smiling a little at his           
ignorance. And being no stranger to the art of war, I gave him a            
description of cannons, culverins, muskets, carabines, pistols,             
bullets, powder, swords, bayonets, battles, sieges, retreats, attacks,      
undermines, countermines, bombardments, sea fights; ships sunk with         
a thousand men, twenty thousand killed on each side; dying groans,          
limbs flying in the air, smoke, noise, confusion, trampling to death        
under horses' feet; flight, pursuit, victory; fields strewed with           
carcases left for food to dogs, and wolves, and birds of prey;              
plundering, stripping, ravishing, burning, and destroying. And to           
set forth the valor of my own dear countrymen, I assured him that I         
had seen them blow up a hundred enemies at once in a siege, and as          
many in a ship, and beheld the dead bodies come down in pieces from         
the clouds, to the great diversion of the spectators.                       
  I was going on to more particulars, when my master commanded me           
silence. He said whoever understood the nature of Yahoos might              
easily believe it possible for so vile animals to be capable of             
every action I had named, if their strength and cunning squalled their      
malice. But as my discourse had increased his abhorrence of the             
whole species, so he found it gave him a disturbance in his mind, to        
which he was wholly a stranger before. He thought his ears being            
used to such abominable words, might by degrees admit them with less        
detestation. That although he hated the Yahoos of this country, yet he      
no more blamed them for their odious qualities, than he did a gnnayh        
(a bird of prey) for its cruelty, or a sharp stone for cutting his          
hoof. But when a creature pretending to reason could be capable of          
such enormities, he dreaded lest the corruption of that faculty             
might be worse than brutality itself. He seemed therefore confident,        
that instead of reason, we were only possessed of some quality              
fitted to increase our natural vices; as the reflection from a              
troubled stream returns the image of an ill-shapen body, not only           
larger, but more distorted.                                                 
  He added, that he had heard too much upon the subject of war, both        
in this and some former discourses. There was another point which a         
little perplexed him at present. I had informed him, that some of           
our crew left their country on account of being ruined by Law; that         
I had already explained the meaning of the word; but he was at a            
loss how it should come to pass, that the law which was intended for        
every man's preservation, should be any man's ruin. Therefore he            
desired to be further satisfied what I meant by law, and the                
dispensers thereof, according to the present practice in my own             
country; because he thought nature and reason were sufficient guides        
for a reasonable animal, as we pretended to be, in showing us what          
we ought to do, and what to avoid.                                          
                                                    {P_4|CH_5 ^paragraph 10}
  I assured his Honor that law was a science wherein I had not much         
conversed, further than by employing advocates, in vain, upon some          
injustices that had been done me: however, I would give him all the         
satisfaction I was able.                                                    
  I said there was a society of men among us, bred up from their youth      
in the art of proving by words multiplied for the purpose, that             
white is black, and black is white, according as they are paid. To          
this society all the rest of the people are slaves. For example, if my      
neighbor has a mind to my cow, he hires a lawyer to prove that he           
ought to have my cow from me. I must then hire another to defend my         
right, it being against all rules of law that any man should be             
allowed to speak for himself. Now in this case I who am the right           
owner lie under two great disadvantages. First, my lawyer, being            
practiced almost from his cradle in defending falsehood, is quite           
out of his element when he would be an advocate for justice, which          
as an office unnatural, he always attempts with great awkwardness if        
not with ill-will. The second disadvantage is that my lawyer must           
proceed with great caution, or else he will be reprimanded by the           
judges, and abhorred by his brethren, as one that would lessen the          
practice of the law. And therefore I have but two methods to                
preserve my cow. The first is to gain over my adversary's lawyer            
with a double fee, who will then betray his client by insinuating that      
he has justice on his side. The second way is for my lawyer to make my      
cause appear as unjust as he can by the cow to belong to my adversary:      
and this, if it be skillfully done will certainly bespeak the favor of      
the bench.                                                                  
  Now, your Honour is to know that these judges an appointed to decide      
all controversies of property, as well as for the trial of                  
criminals, and picked out from the most dexterous lawyers, who are          
grown old or lazy, and having been biassed all their lives against          
truth and equity, are under such a fatal necessity of favoring              
fraud, perjury, and oppression, that I have known several of them           
refuse a large bribe from the side where justice lay, rather than           
injure the faculty, by doing any thing unbecoming their nature or           
their office.                                                               
  It is a maxim among these lawyers, that whatever has been done            
before may legally be done again: and therefore they take special care      
to record all the decisions formerly made against common justice and        
the general reason of mankind. These, under the name of precedents,         
they produce as authorities, to justify the most iniquitous                 
opinions; and the judges never fail of directing accordingly.               
  In pleading they studiously avoid entering into the merits of the         
cause, but are loud, violent, and tedious in dwelling upon all              
circumstances which are not to the purpose. For instance, in the            
case already mentioned, they never desire to know what claim or             
title my adversary has to my cow; but whether the said cow were red or      
black, her horns long or short, whether the field I graze her in be         
round or square, whether she was milked at home or abroad, what             
diseases she is subject to, and the like; after which they consult          
precedents, adjourn the cause from time to time, and in ten, twenty,        
or thirty years, come to an issue.                                          
                                                    {P_4|CH_5 ^paragraph 15}
  It is likewise to be observed, that this society has a peculiar cant      
and jargon of their own, that no other mortal can understand, and           
wherein all their laws are written, which they take special care to         
multiply; whereby they have wholly confounded the very essence of           
truth and falsehood, of right and wrong; so that it will take thirty        
years to decide whether the field left me by my ancestors for six           
generations belongs to me, or to a stranger three hundred miles off.        
  In the trial of persons accused for crimes against the state the          
method is much more short and commendable: the judge first sends to         
sound the disposition of those in power, after which he can easily          
hang or save the criminal, strictly preserving all due forms of law.        
  Here my master interposing, said it was a pity that creatures             
endowed with such prodigious abilities of mind as these lawyers, by         
the description I gave of them, must certainly be, were not rather          
encouraged to be instructors of others in wisdom and knowledge. In          
answer to which I assured his Honor that in all points out of their         
own trade, they were usually the most ignorant and stupid generation        
among us, the most despicable in common conversation, avowed enemies        
to all knowledge and learning, and equally to pervert the general           
reason of mankind in every other subject of discourse, as in that of        
their own profession.                                                       
                                                                            
P_4|CH_6                                                                    
  CHAPTER VI                                                                
-                                                                           
  My master was yet wholly at a loss to understand what motives             
could incite this race of lawyers to perplex, disquiet, and weary           
themselves, and engage in a confederacy of injustice, merely for the        
sake of injuring their fellow animals; neither could he comprehend          
what I meant in saying they did it for hire. Whereupon I was at much        
pains to describe to him the use of money, the materials it was made        
of, and the value of the metals; that when a Yahoo had got a great          
store of this precious substance, he was able to purchase whatever          
he had a mind to; the finest clothing, the noblest houses, great            
tracts of land, the most costly meats and drinks, and have his              
choice of the most beautiful females. Therefore since money alone           
was able to perform all these feats, our Yahoos thought they could          
never have enough of it to spend or save, as they found themselves          
inclined from their natural bent either to profusion or avarice.            
That the rich man enjoyed the fruit of the poor man's labor, and the        
latter were a thousand to one in proportion to the former. That the         
bulk of our people were forced to live miserably, by laboring every         
day for small wages to make a few live plentifully. I enlarged              
myself much on these and many other particulars to the same purpose;        
but his Honor was still to seek; for he went upon a supposition that        
all animals had a title to their share in the productions of the            
earth, and especially those who presided over the rest. Therefore he        
desired I would let him know what these costly meats were, and how any      
of us happened to want them. Whereupon I enumerated as many sorts as        
came into my head, with the various methods of dressing them, which         
could not be done without sending vessels by sea to every part of           
the world, as well for liquors to drink, as for sauces, and                 
innumerable other conveniences. I assured him that this whole globe of      
earth must be at least three times gone round, before one of our            
better female Yahoos could get her breakfast or a cup to put it in. He      
said that must needs be a miserable country which cannot furnish            
food for its own inhabitants. But what he chiefly wondered at, was how      
such vast tracts of ground as I described should be wholly without          
fresh water, and the people put to the necessity of sending over the        
sea for drink. I replied that England (the dear place of my                 
nativity) was computed to produce three times the quantity of food,         
more than its inhabitants are able to consume, as well as liquors           
extracted from grain, or pressed out of the fruit of certain trees,         
which made excellent drink, and the same proportion in every other          
convenience of life. But, in order to feed the luxury and intemperance      
of the males, and the vanity of the females, we sent away the greatest      
part of our necessary things to other countries, from whence in return      
we brought the materials of diseases, folly, and vice, to spend             
among ourselves. Hence it follows of necessity that vast numbers of         
our people are compelled to seek their livelihood by begging, robbing,      
stealing, cheating, pimping, forswearing, flattering, suborning,            
forging, gaming, lying, fawning, hectoring, voting, scribbling,             
star-gazing, poisoning, whoring, canting, libeling, free thinking, and      
the like occupations: every one of which terms, I was at much pains to      
make him understand.                                                        
  That wine was not imported among us from foreign countries, to            
supply the want of water or other drinks, but because it was a sort of      
liquid which made us merry by putting us out of our senses, diverted        
all melancholy thoughts, begat wild extravagant imaginations in the         
brain, raised our hopes, and banished our fears, suspended every            
office of reason for a time, and deprived us of the use of our              
limbs, till we fell into a profound sleep; although it must be              
confessed, that we always awoke sick and dispirited and that the use        
of this liquor filled us with diseases, which made our lives                
uncomfortable and short.                                                    
  But beside all this, the bulk of our people supported themselves          
by furnishing the necessities or conveniences of life to the rich, and      
to each other. For instance, when I am at home and dressed as I             
ought to be, I carry on my body the workmanship of a hundred                
tradesmen; the building and furniture of my house employ as many more,      
and five times the number to adorn my wife.                                 
  I was going on to tell him of another sort of people, who get             
their livelihood by attending the sick, having upon some occasions          
informed his Honor that many of my crew had died of diseases. But here      
it was with the utmost difficulty that I brought him to apprehend what      
I meant. He could easily conceive that a Houyhnhnm grew weak and heavy      
a few days before his death, or by some accident might hurt a limb.         
But that nature, who works all things to perfection, should suffer any      
pains to breed in our bodies, he thought impossible, and desired to         
know the reason of so unaccountable an evil. I told him we fed on a         
thousand things which operated contrary to each other; that we ate          
when we were not hungry, and drank without the provocation of               
thirst; that we sat whole nights strong liquors without eating a            
bit, which disposed us to sloth, inflamed our bodies, and precipitated      
or prevented digestion. That prostitute female Yahoos acquired a            
certain malady, which bred rottenness in the bones of those who fell        
into their embraces; that this and many other diseases were propagated      
from father to son, so that great numbers come into the world with          
complicated maladies upon them; that it would be endless to give him a      
catalogue of all diseases incident to human bodies; for they could not      
be fewer than five or six hundred, spread over every limb and joint;        
in short, every part, external and intestine, having diseases               
appropriated to them. To remedy which there was a sort of people            
bred up among us, in the profession or pretense of curing the sick.         
And because I had some skill in the faculty, I would in gratitude to        
his Honor let him know the whole mystery and method by which they           
proceed.                                                                    
  Their fundamental is that all diseases arise from repletion, from         
which they conclude that a great evacuation of the body is                  
necessary, either through the natural passage or upwards at the mouth.      
Their next business is from herbs, minerals, gums, oils, shells,            
salts, juices, seaweed, excrements, barks of trees, serpents, toads,        
frogs, spiders, dead men's flesh and bone, birds, beasts and fishes,        
to form a composition for smell and taste the most abominable,              
nauseous and detestable they can possibly contrive, which the               
stomach immediately rejects with loathing; and this they call a vomit;      
or else from the same storehouse, with some other poisonous additions,      
they command us to take in at the orifice above or below (just as           
the physician then happens to be disposed) a medicine equally annoying      
and disgustful to the bowels; which relaxing the belly, drives down         
all before it, and this they call a purge or a cluster. For nature (as      
the physicians allege) having intended the superior anterior orifice        
only for the intromission of solids and liquids, and the inferior           
posterior for ejection, these artists ingeniously considering that          
in all diseases nature is forced out of her seat, therefore to replace      
her in it the body must be treated in a manner directly contrary, by        
interchanging the use of each orifice, forcing solids and liquids in        
at the anus, and making evacuations at the mouth.                           
                                                     {P_4|CH_6 ^paragraph 5}
  But besides real diseases we are subject to many that are only            
imaginary, for which the physicians have invented imaginary cures;          
these have their several names, and so have the drugs that are              
proper for them, and with these our female Yahoos are always infested.      
  One great excellency in this tribe is their skiff at prognostics,         
wherein they seldom fail; their predictions in real diseases, when          
they rise to any degree of malignity, generally portending death,           
which is always in their power, when recovery is not: and therefore,        
upon any unexpected signs of amendment, after they have pronounced          
their sentence, rather than be accused as false prophets, they know         
how to approve their sagacity to the world by a seasonable dose.            
  They are likewise of special use to husbands and wives who are grown      
weary of their mates, to eldest sons, to great ministers of state, and      
often to princes.                                                           
  I had formerly upon occasion discoursed with my master upon the           
nature of government in general, and particularly of our own excellent      
constitution, deservedly the wonder and envy of the whole world. But        
having here accidentally mentioned a minister of state, he commanded        
me some time after to inform him what species of Yahoo I                    
particularly meant by that appellation.                                     
  I told him that a First or Chief Minister of State, who was the           
person I intended to describe, was a creature wholly exempt from joy        
and grief, love and hatred, pity and anger; at least made use of no         
other passions but a violent desire of wealth, power, and titles; that      
he applies his words to all uses, except to the indication of his           
mind; that he never tells a truth but with an intent that you should        
take it for a lie; nor a lie but with a design that you should take it      
for a truth; that those he speaks worst of behind their backs are in        
the surest way of preferment; and whenever he begins to praise you          
to others or to yourself, you are from that day forlorn. The worst          
mark you can receive is a promise, especially when it is confirmed          
with an oath; after which every wise man retires, and gives over all        
hopes.                                                                      
                                                    {P_4|CH_6 ^paragraph 10}
  There are three methods by which a man may rise to be chief               
minister: the first is by knowing how with prudence to dispose of a         
wife, a daughter, or a sister: the second, by betraying or undermining      
his predecessor: and the third is by a furious zeal in public               
assemblies against the corruptions of the court. But a wise prince          
would rather choose to employ those who practice the last of these          
methods; because such zealots prove always the most obsequious and          
subservient to the will and passions of their master. That these            
ministers having all employments at their disposal, preserve                
themselves in power by bribing the majority of a senate or great            
council; and at last, by an expedient called an Act of Indemnity            
(whereof I described the nature to him) they secure themselves from         
after reckonings, and retire from the public, laden with the spoils of      
the nation.                                                                 
  The palace of a chief minister is a seminary to breed up others in        
his own trade: the pages, lackeys, and porter, by imitating their           
master, become ministers of state in their several districts, and           
learn to excel in the three principal ingredients of insolence, lying,      
and bribery. Accordingly they have a subaltern court paid to them by        
persons of the best rank, and sometimes by the force of dexterity           
and impudence arrive through several gradations to be successors to         
their lord.                                                                 
  He is usually governed by a decayed wench or favorite footman, who        
are the tunnels through which all graces are conveyed, and may              
properly be called, in the last resort, the governors of the kingdom.       
  One day in discourse my master, having heard me mention the nobility      
of my country, was pleased to make me a compliment which I could not        
pretend to deserve: that he was sure I must have been born of some          
noble family, because I far exceeded in shape, color, and cleanliness,      
all the Yahoos of his nation, although I seemed to fail in strength         
and agility, which must be imputed to my different way of living            
from those other brutes; and besides I was not only endowed with the        
faculty of speech, but likewise with some rudiments of reason, to a         
degree that with all his acquaintance I passed for a prodigy.               
  He made me observe, that among the Houyhnhnms, the white, the             
sorrel, and the iron grey were not so exactly shaped as the bay, the        
dapple grey, and the black; nor born with equal talents of the mind,        
or a capacity to improve them; and therefore continued always in the        
condition of servants, without ever aspiring to match out of their own      
race, which in that country would be reckoned monstrous and unnatural.      
                                                    {P_4|CH_6 ^paragraph 15}
  I made his Honor my most humble acknowledgments for the good opinion      
he was pleased to conceive of me; but assured him at the same time          
that my birth was of the lower sort, having been born of plain              
honest parents, who were just able to give me a tolerable education;        
that nobility among us was altogether a different thing from the            
idea he had of it; that our young noblemen are bred from their              
childhood in idleness and luxury; that as soon as years will permit,        
they consume their vigor and contract odious diseases among lewd            
females; and when their fortunes are almost ruined, they marry some         
woman of mean birth, disagreeable person, and unsound constitution,         
merely for the sake of money, whom they hate and despise. That the          
productions of such marriages are generally scrofulous, rickety, or         
deformed children; by which means the family seldom continues above         
three generations, unless the wife takes care to provide a healthy          
father among her neighbors or domestics, in order to improve and            
continue the breed. That a weak diseased body, a meagre countenance,        
and sallow complexion, are the true marks of noble blood; and a             
healthy robust appearance is so disgraceful in a man of quality,            
that the world concludes his real father to have been a groom or a          
coachman. The imperfections of his mind run parallel with those of his      
body, being a composition of spleen, dullness, ignorance, caprice,          
sensuality and pride.                                                       
  Without the consent of this illustrious body no law can be                
enacted, repealed, or altered; and these have the decision of all           
our possessions without appeal.                                             
                                                                            
P_4|CH_7                                                                    
  CHAPTER VII                                                               
-                                                                           
  The reader may be disposed to wonder how I could prevail on myself        
to give so free a representation of my own species, among a race of         
mortals who were already too apt to conceive the vilest opinion of          
human kind, from that entire congruity betwixt me and their Yahoos.         
But I must freely confess that the many virtues of those excellent          
quadrupeds placed in opposite view to human corruptions, had so far         
opened my eyes and enlarged my understanding, that I began to view the      
actions and passions of man in a very different light, and to think         
the honor of my own kind not worth managing; which, besides, it was         
impossible for me to do before a person of so acute a judgment as my        
master, who daily convinced me of a thousand faults in myself, whereof      
I had not the least perception before, and which among us would             
never be numbered even among human infirmities. I had likewise learned      
from his example an utter detestation of all falsehood or disguise,         
and truth appeared so amiable to me, that I determined upon                 
sacrificing everything to it.                                               
  Let me deal so candidly with the reader as to confess that there was      
yet a much stronger motive for the freedom I took in my representation      
of things. I had not been a year in this country before I contracted        
such a love and veneration for the inhabitants, that I entered on a         
firm resolution never to return to human kind, but to pass the rest of      
my life among these admirable Houyhnhnms in the contemplation and           
practice of every virtue; where I could have no example or                  
incitement to vice. But it was decreed by fortune, my perpetual enemy,      
that so great a felicity should not fall to my share. However, it is        
now some comfort to reflect that in what I said of my countrymen I          
extenuated their faults as much as I dared before so strict an              
examiner, and upon every article gave as favorable a turn as the            
matter would bear. For indeed who is there alive that will not be           
swayed by his bias and partiality to the place of his birth?                
  I have related the substance of several conversations I had with          
my master, during the greatest part of the time I had the honor to          
be in his service, but have indeed for brevity sake omitted much            
more than is here set down.                                                 
  When I had answered all his questions, and his curiosity seemed to        
be fully satisfied, he sent for me one morning early, and commanding        
me to sit down at some distance (an honor which he had never before         
conferred upon me), he said he had been very seriously considering          
my whole story, as far as it related both to myself and my country;         
that he looked upon us as sort of animals to whose share, by what           
accident he could not conjecture, some small pittance of reason had         
fallen, whereof we made no other use than by its assistance to              
aggravate our natural corruptions, and to acquire new ones which            
nature had not given us. That we disarmed ourselves of the few              
abilities she had bestowed, had been very successful in multiplying         
our original wants, and seemed to spend our whole lives in vain             
endeavors to supply them by our own inventions. That as to myself,          
it was manifest I had neither the strength or agility of a common           
Yahoo, that I walked infirmly on my hinder feet, had found out a            
contrivance to make my claws of no use or defense, and to remove the        
hair from my chin, which was intended as a shelter from the sun and         
the weather. Lastly, that I could neither run with speed, nor climb         
trees like my brethren (as he called them) the Yahoos in this country.      
  That our institutions of government and law were plainly owing to         
our gross defects in reason, and by consequence, in virtue; because         
reason alone is sufficient to govern a rational creature; which was         
therefore a character we had no pretense to challenge, even from the        
account I had given of my own people; although he manifestly perceived      
that in order to favor them I had concealed many particulars, and           
often said the thing which was not.                                         
                                                     {P_4|CH_7 ^paragraph 5}
  He was the more confirmed in this opinion, because he observed            
that as I agreed in every feature of my body with other Yahoos, except      
where it was to my real disadvantage in point of strength, speed and        
activity, the shortness of my claws, and some other particulars             
where nature had no part; so from the representation I had given him        
of our lives, our manners, and our actions, he found as near a              
resemblance in the disposition of our minds. He said the Yahoos were        
known to hate one another more than they did any different species          
of animals; and the reason usually assigned was the odiousness of           
their own shapes, which all could see in the rest, but not in               
themselves. He had therefore begun to think it not unwise in us to          
cover our bodies, and by that invention conceal many of our own             
deformities from each other, which would else be hardly supportable.        
But he now found he had been mistaken, and that the dissensions of          
those brutes in his country were owing to the same cause with ours, as      
I had described them. For if (said he) you throw among five Yahoos          
as much food as would be sufficient for fifty, they will, instead of        
eating peaceably, fall together by the ears, each single one impatient      
to have all to itself; and therefore a servant was usually employed to      
stand by while they were feeding abroad, and those kept at home were        
tied at a distance from each other: that if a cow died of age or            
accident, before a Houyhnhnm could secure it for his own Yahoos, those      
in the neighborhood would come in herds to seize it, and then would         
ensue such a battle as I had described, with terrible wounds made by        
their claws on both sides, although they seldom were able to kill           
one another, for want of such convenient instruments of death as we         
had invented. At other times the like battles have been fought between      
the Yahoos of several neighborhoods without any visible cause; those        
of one district watching all opportunities to surprise the next before      
they are prepared. But if they find their project has miscarried, they      
return home, and, for want of enemies, engage in what I call a civil        
war among themselves.                                                       
  That in some fields of his country there are certain shining              
stones of several colors, whereof the Yahoos are violently fond, and        
when part of these stones is fixed in the earth, as it sometimes            
happens, they will dig with their claws for whole days to get them          
out, then carry them away, and hide them by heaps in their kennels;         
but still looking round with great caution, for fear their comrades         
should find out their treasure. My master said he could never discover      
the reason of this unnatural appetite, or how these stones could be of      
any use to a Yahoo; but now he believed it might proceed from the same      
principle of avarice which I had ascribed to mankind: that he had           
once, by way of experiment, privately removed a heap of these stones        
from the place where one of his Yahoos had buried it: whereupon the         
sordid animal missing his treasure, by his loud lamenting brought           
the whole herd to the place, there miserably howled, then fell to           
biting and tearing the rest, began to pine away, would neither eat nor      
sleep nor work, till he ordered a servant privately to convey the           
stones into the same hole and hide them as before; which when his           
Yahoo had found, he presently recovered his spirits and good humor,         
but took good care to remove them to a better hiding place, and has         
ever since been a very serviceable brute.                                   
  My master farther assured me, which I also observed myself, that          
in the fields where the shining stones abound, the fiercest and most        
frequent battles are fought, occasioned by perpetual inroads of the         
neighboring Yahoos.                                                         
  He said it was common when two Yahoos discovered such a stone in a        
field, and were contending which of them should be the proprietor, a        
third would take the advantage, and carry it away from them both;           
which my master would needs contend to have some kind of resemblance        
with our suits at law; wherein I thought it for our credit not to           
undeceive him; since the decision he mentioned was much more equitable      
than many decrees among us; because the plaintiff and defendant             
there lost nothing beside the stone they contended for, whereas our         
courts of equity would never have dismissed the cause while either          
of them had any thing left.                                                 
  My master, his discourse, said there was nothing that rendered the        
Yahoos more odious than their undistinguishing appetite to devour           
every thing that came in their way, whether herbs, roots, berries, the      
corrupted flesh of animals, or all mingled together; and it was             
peculiar in their temper that they were fonder of what they could           
get by rapine or stealth at a greater distance than much better food        
provided for them at home. If their prey held out, they would eat till      
they were ready to burst, after which nature had pointed out to them a      
certain root that gave them a general evacuation.                           
                                                    {P_4|CH_7 ^paragraph 10}
  There was also another kind of root very juicy, but somewhat rare         
and difficult to be found, which the Yahoos sought for with much            
eagerness, and would suck it with great delight; and it produced in         
them the same effects that wine has upon us. It would make them             
sometimes hug, and sometimes tear one another; they would howl and          
grin, and chatter, and reel, and tumble, and then fall asleep in the        
dirt.                                                                       
  I did indeed observe that the Yahoos were the only animals in this        
country subject to any diseases; which, however, were much fewer            
than horses have among us, and contracted not by any ill treatment          
they meet with, but by the nastiness and greediness of that sordid          
brute. Neither has their language any more than a general                   
appellation for those maladies, which is borrowed from the name of the      
beast, and called Hnea-Yahoo, or the Yahoo's evil, and the cure             
prescribed is a mixture of their own dung and urine forcibly put            
down the Yahoo's throat. This I have since often known to have been         
taken with success, and do freely recommend it to my countrymen, for        
the public good, as an admirable specific against all diseases              
produced by repletion.                                                      
  As to learning, government, arts, manufactures, and the like, my          
master confessed he could find little or no resemblance between the         
Yahoos of that country and those in ours. For he only meant to observe      
what parity there was in our natures. He had heard indeed some curious      
Houyhnhnms observe that in most herds there was a sort of ruling Yahoo      
(as among us there is generally some leading or principal stag in a         
park), who was always more deformed in body and mischievous in              
disposition than any of the rest. That this leader had usually a            
favorite as like himself as he could get, whose employment was to lick      
his master's feet and posteriors, and drive the female Yahoos to his        
kennel; for which he was now and then rewarded with a piece of ass's        
flesh. This favorite is hated by the whole herd, and therefore to           
protect himself, keeps always near the person of his leader. He             
usually continues in office till worse can be found; but the very           
moment he is discarded, his successor, at the head of all the Yahoos        
in that district, young and old, male and female, come in a body,           
and discharge their excrements upon him from head to foot. But how far      
this might be applicable to our courts and favorites, and ministers of      
state, my master said I could best determine.                               
  I dared make no return to this malicious insinuation, which               
debased human understanding below the sagacity of a common hound,           
who has judgment enough to distinguish and follow the cry of the            
ablest dog in the pack, without being ever mistaken.                        
  My master told me there were some qualities remarkable in the             
Yahoos, which he had not observed me to mention, or at least very           
slightly, in the accounts I had given him of human kind. He said those      
animals, like other brutes, had their females in common; but in this        
they differed, that the she Yahoo would admit the male while she was        
pregnant; and that the hes would quarrel and fight with the females as      
fiercely as with each other. Both which practices were such degrees of      
brutality, that no other sensitive creature ever arrived at.                
                                                    {P_4|CH_7 ^paragraph 15}
  Another thing he wondered at in the Yahoos was their strange              
disposition to nastiness and dirt, whereas there appears to be a            
natural love of cleanliness in all other animals. As to the former          
accusation, I was glad to let it pass without any reply, because I had      
not a word to offer upon it in defense of my species, which                 
otherwise I certainly had done from my own inclinations. But I could        
have easily vindicated human kind from the imputation of singularity        
upon the last article, if there had been any swine in that country (as      
unluckily for me there were not), which although it may be a sweeter        
quadruped than a Yahoo, cannot I humbly conceive in justice pretend to      
more cleanliness; and so his Honor himself must have owned, if he           
had seen their filthy way of feeding, and their custom of wallowing         
and sleeping in the mud.                                                    
  My master likewise mentioned another quality which his servants           
had discovered in several Yahoos, and to him was wholly unaccountable.      
He said, a fancy would sometimes take a Yahoo to retire into a corner,      
to lie down and howl and groan, and spurn away all that came near him,      
although he were young and fat, wanted neither food nor water; nor did      
the servants imagine what could possibly ail him. And the only              
remedy they found was to set him to hard work, after which he would         
infallibly come to himself. To this I was silent out of partiality          
to my own kind; yet here I could plainly discover the true seeds of         
spleen, which only seizes on the lazy, the luxurious, and the rich;         
who, if they were forced to undergo the same regimen, I would               
undertake for the cure.                                                     
  His Honor had further observed that a female Yahoo would often stand      
behind a bank or a bush, to gaze on the young males passing by, and         
then appear, and hide, using many antic gestures and grimaces, at           
which time it was observed that she had a most offensive smell; and         
when any of the males advanced, would slowly retire, looking often          
back, and with a counterfeit show of fear, run off into some                
convenient place where she knew the male would follow her.                  
  At other times if a female stranger came among them, three or four        
of her own sex would get about her, and stare and chatter, and grin,        
and smell her all over; and then turn off with gestures that seemed to      
express contempt and disdain.                                               
  Perhaps my master might refine a little in these speculations, which      
he had drawn from what he observed himself, or had been told him by         
others; however, I could not reflect without some amazement, and            
much sorrow, that the rudiments of coquetry, censure, and scandal,          
should have place by instinct in womankind.                                 
                                                    {P_4|CH_7 ^paragraph 20}
  I expected every moment that my master would accuse the Yahoos of         
those unnatural appetites in both sexes, so common among us. But            
nature, it seems, has not been so expert a school mistress; and             
these politer pleasures are entirely the productions of art and             
reason, on our side of the globe.                                           
                                                                            
P_4|CH_8                                                                    
  CHAPTER VIII                                                              
-                                                                           
  As I ought to have understood human nature much better than I             
supposed it possible for my master to do, so it was easy to apply           
the character he gave of the Yahoos to myself and my countrymen; and I      
believed I could yet make farther discoveries from my own observation.      
I therefore often begged his favor to let me go among the herds of          
Yahoos in the neighborhood, to which he always very graciously              
consented, being perfectly convinced that the hatred I bore those           
brutes would never suffer me to be corrupted by them; and his Honor         
ordered one of his servants, a strong sorrel nag, very honest and           
good-natured, to be my guard, without whose protection I dare not           
undertake such adventures. For I have already told the reader how much      
I was pestered by those odious animals upon my first arrival. And I         
afterwards failed very narrowly three or four times of falling into         
their clutches, when I happened to stray at any distance without my         
hanger. And I have reason to believe they had some imagination that         
I was of their own species, which I often assisted myself, by               
stripping up my sleeves, and showing my naked arms and breast in their      
sight, when my protector was with me. At which times they would             
approach as near as they dare, and imitate my actions after the manner      
of monkeys, but ever with great signs of hatred; as a tame jackdaw          
with cap and stockings is always persecuted by the wild ones, when          
he happens to get among them.                                               
  They are prodigiously nimble from their infancy; however, I once          
caught a young male of three years old, and endeavored by all marks of      
tenderness to make it quiet; but the little imp fell a squalling and        
scratching and biting with such violence that I was forced to let it        
go; and it was high time, for a whole troop of old ones came about          
us at the noise, but finding the cub was safe (for away it ran), and        
my sorrel nag being by, they dare not venture near us. I observed           
the young animal's flesh to smell very rank, and the stink was              
somewhat between a weasel and a fox, but much more disagreeable. I          
forgot another circumstance (and perhaps I might have the reader's          
pardon if it were wholly omitted), that while I held the odious vermin      
in my hands, it voided its filthy excrements of a yellow liquid             
substance, all over my clothes; but by good fortune there was a             
small brook hard by, where I washed myself as clean as I could;             
although I dare not come into my master's presence, until I were            
sufficiently aired.                                                         
  By what I could discover, the Yahoos appear to be the most                
unteachable of all animals, their capacities never reaching higher          
than to draw or carry burdens. Yet I am of opinion this defect              
arises chiefly from a perverse, restive disposition. For they are           
cunning, malicious, treacherous, and revengeful. They are strong and        
hardy, but of a cowardly spirit, and by consequence, insolent, abject,      
and cruel. It is observed that the red haired of both sexes are more        
libidinous and mischievous than the rest, whom yet they much exceed in      
strength and activity.                                                      
  The Houyhnhnms keep the Yahoos for present use in huts not far            
from the house; but the rest are sent abroad to certain fields,             
where they dig up roots, eat several kinds of herbs, and search             
about for carrion, or sometimes catch weasels and luhimuhs (a sort          
of wild rat), which they greedily devour. Nature has taught them to         
dig deep holes with their nails on the side of a rising ground,             
wherein they lie by themselves; only the kennels of the females are         
larger, sufficient to hold two or three cubs.                               
  They swim from their infancy like frogs, and are able to continue         
long under water, where they often take fish, which the females             
carry home to their young. And upon this occasion, I hope the reader        
will pardon my relating an odd adventure.                                   
                                                     {P_4|CH_8 ^paragraph 5}
  Being one day abroad with my protector, the sorrel nag, and the           
weather exceeding hot, I entreated him to let me bathe in a river that      
was near. He consented, and I immediately stripped myself stark naked,      
and went down softly into the stream. It happened that a young              
female Yahoo, standing behind a bank, saw the whole proceeding, and         
inflamed by desire, as the nag and I conjectured, came running with         
all speed, and leaped into the water, within five yards of the place        
where I bathed. I was never in my life so terribly frighted; the nag        
was grazing at some distance, not suspecting any harm. She embraced me      
after a most fulsome manner; I roared as loud as I could, and the           
nag came galloping towards me, whereupon she quitted her grasp, with        
the utmost reluctancy, and leaped upon the opposite bank, where she         
stood gazing and howling all the time I was putting on my clothes.          
  This was matter of diversion to my master and his family, as well as      
of mortification to myself. For now I could no longer deny that I           
was a real Yahoo in every limb and feature, since the females had a         
natural propensity to me, as one of their own species. Neither was the      
hair of this brute of a red color (which might have been some excuse        
for an appetite a little irregular), but black as a sloe, and her           
countenance did not make an appearance altogether so hideous as the         
rest of the kind; for, I think, she could not be above eleven years         
old.                                                                        
  Having lived three years in this country, the reader I suppose            
will expect that I should, like other travelers, give him some account      
of the manners and customs of its inhabitants, which it was indeed          
my principal study to learn.                                                
  As these noble Houyhnhnms are endowed by nature with a general            
disposition to all virtues, and have no conceptions or ideas of what        
is evil in a rational creature, so their grand maxim is to cultivate        
reason, and to be wholly governed by it. Neither is reason among            
them a point problematical as with us, where men can argue with             
plausibility on both sides of the question; but strikes you with            
immediate conviction; as it must needs do where it is not mingled,          
obscured, or discolored by passion and interest. I remember it was          
with extreme difficulty that I could bring my master to understand the      
meaning of the word opinion, or how a point could be disputable;            
because reason taught us to affirm or deny only where we are                
certain, and beyond our knowledge we cannot do either. So that              
controversies, wranglings, disputes, and positiveness in false or           
dubious propositions, are evils unknown among the Houyhnhnms. In the        
like manner when I used to explain to him our several systems of            
natural philosophy, he would laugh that a creature pretending to            
reason should value itself upon the knowledge of other people's             
conjectures, and in things where that knowledge, if it were certain,        
could be of no use. Wherein he agreed entirely with the sentiments          
of Socrates, as Plato delivers them; which I mention as the highest         
honor I can do that prince of philosophers. I have often since              
reflected what destruction such a doctrine would make in the libraries      
of Europe, and how many paths to fame would be then shut up in the          
learned world.                                                              
  Friendship and benevolence are the two principal virtues among the        
Houyhnhnms, and these not confined to particular objects, but               
universal to the whole race. For a stranger from the remotest part          
is equally treated with the nearest neighbor, and wherever he goes          
looks upon himself as at home. They preserve decency and civility in        
the highest degrees, but are altogether ignorant of ceremony. They          
have no fondness for their colts or foals, but the care they take in        
educating them proceeds entirely from the dictates of reason. And I         
observed my master to show the same affection to his neighbor's             
issue that he had for his own. They will have it that nature teaches        
them to love the whole species, and it is reason only that makes a          
distinction of persons, where there is a superior degree of virtue.         
                                                    {P_4|CH_8 ^paragraph 10}
  When the matron Houyhnhnms have produced one of each sex, they no         
longer accompany with their consorts, except they lose one of their         
issue by some casualty, which very seldom happens; but in such a            
case they meet again; or when the like accident befalls a person whose      
wife is past bearing, some other couple bestow on him one of their own      
colts, and then go together again till the mother is pregnant. This         
caution is necessary to prevent the country from being overburdened         
with numbers. But the race of inferior Houyhnhnms bred up to be             
servants is not so strictly limited upon this article; these are            
allowed to produce three of each sex, to be domestics in the noble          
families.                                                                   
  In their marriages they are exactly careful to choose such colors as      
will not make any disagreeable mixture in the breed. Strength is            
chiefly valued in the male, and comeliness in the female; not upon the      
account of love, but to preserve the race from degenerating; for where      
a female happens to excel in strength, a consort is chosen with regard      
to comeliness. Courtship, love, presents, jointures, settlements, have      
no place in their thoughts, or terms whereby to express them in             
their language. The young couple meet and are joined, merely because        
it is the determination of their parents and friends: it is what            
they see done every day, and they look upon it as one of the necessary      
actions of a rational being. But the violation of marriage, or any          
other unchastity, was never heard of; and the married pair pass             
their lives with the same friendship and mutual benevolence that            
they bear to all others of the same species who come in their way;          
without jealousy, fondness, quarrelling, or discontent.                     
  In educating the youth of both sexes, their method is admirable, and      
highly deserves our imitation. These are not suffered to taste a grain      
of oats, except upon certain days, till eighteen years old; nor             
milk, but very rarely; and in summer they graze two hours in the            
morning, and as long in the evening, which their parents likewise           
observe; but the servants are not allowed above half that time, and         
a great part of their grass is brought home, which they eat at the          
most convenient hours, when they can be best spared from work.              
  Temperance, industry, exercise and cleanliness, are the lessons           
equally enjoined to the young ones of both sexes; and my master             
thought it monstrous in us to give the females a different kind of          
education from the males, except in some articles of domestic               
management; whereby, as he truly observed, one half of our natives          
were good for nothing but bringing children into the world; and to          
trust the care of our children to such useless animals, he said, was        
yet a greater instance of brutality.                                        
  But the Houyhnhnms train up their youth to strength, speed, and           
hardiness, by exercising them in running races up and down steep            
hills, and over hard stony grounds; and when they are all in a              
sweat, they are ordered to leap over head and ears into a pond or           
river. Four times a year the youth of a certain district meet to            
show their proficiency in running and leaping, and other feats of           
strength and agility; where the victor is rewarded with a song made in      
his or her praise. On this festival the servants drive a herd of            
Yahoos into the field, laden with hay and oats and milk, for a              
repast to the Houyhnhnms; after which these brutes are immediately          
driven back again, for fear of being noisome to the assembly.               
                                                    {P_4|CH_8 ^paragraph 15}
  Every fourth year, at the vernal equinox, there is a                      
representative council of the whole nation, which meets in a plain          
about twenty miles from our house, and continues about five or six          
days. Here they inquire into the state and condition of the several         
districts; whether they abound or be deficient in hay or oats, or cows      
or Yahoos. And wherever there is any want (which is seldom) it is           
immediately supplied by unanimous consent and contribution. Here            
likewise the regulation of children is settled: as for instance, if         
a Houyhnhnm has two males, he changes one of them with another that         
has two females; and when a child has been lost by any casualty, where      
the mother is past breeding, it is determined what family in the            
district shall breed another to supply the loss.                            
                                                                            
P_4|CH_9                                                                    
  CHAPTER IX                                                                
-                                                                           
  One of these grand assemblies was held in my time, about three            
months before my departure, whither my master went as the                   
representative of our district. In this council was resumed their           
old debate, and indeed, the only debate which ever happened in that         
country; whereof my master after his return gave me a very                  
particular account.                                                         
  The question to be debated was whether the Yahoos should be               
exterminated from the face of the earth. One of the members for the         
affirmative offered several arguments of great strength and weight,         
alleging that as the Yahoos were the most filthy, noisome, and              
deformed animal which nature ever produced, so they were the most           
restive and indocible, mischievous and malicious: they would privately      
suck the teats of the Houyhnhnms' cows, kill and devour their cats,         
trample down their oats and grass, if they were not continually             
watched, and commit a thousand other extravagancies. He took notice of      
a general tradition, that Yahoos had not been always in that                
country; but that many ages ago two of these brutes appeared                
together upon a mountain, whether produced by the heat of the sun upon      
corrupted mud and slime, or from the ooze and froth of the sea, was         
never known. That these Yahoos engendered, and their brood in a             
short time grew so numerous as to overrun and infest the whole nation.      
That the Houyhnhnms to get rid of this evil, made a general hunting,        
and at last enclosed the whole herd; and destroying the elder, every        
Houyhnhnm kept two young ones in a kennel, and brought them to such         
a degree of tameness, as an animal so savage by nature can be               
capable of acquiring; using them for draught and carriage. That             
there seemed to be much truth in this tradition, and that those             
creatures could not be Ylnhniamshy (or aborigines of the land),             
because of the violent hatred the Houyhnhnms, as well as all other          
animals, bore them; which although their evil disposition sufficiently      
deserved, could never have arrived at so high a degree, if they had         
been aborigines, or else they would have long since been rooted out.        
That the inhabitants taking a fancy to use the service of the               
Yahoos, had very imprudently neglected to cultivate the breed of            
asses, which were a comely animal, easily kept, more tame and orderly,      
without any offensive smell, strong enough for labor, although they         
yield to the other in agility of body; and if their braying be no           
agreeable sound, it is far preferable to the horrible howlings of           
the Yahoos.                                                                 
  Several others declared their sentiments to the same purpose, when        
my master proposed an expedient to the assembly, whereof he had indeed      
borrowed the hint from me. He approved of the tradition mentioned by        
the honorable member who spoke before, and affirmed that the two            
Yahoos said to be first seen among them had been driven there over the      
sea; that coming to land and being forsaken by their companions they        
retired to the mountains, and degenerating by degrees, became in            
process of time, much more savage than those of their own species in        
the country from where these two originals came. The reason of his          
assertion was that he had now in his possession a certain wonderful         
Yahoo (meaning myself), which most of them had heard of, and many of        
them had seen. He then related to them how he first found me; that          
my body was all covered with an artificial composure of the skins           
and hairs of other animals; that I spoke in a language of my own,           
and had thoroughly learned theirs; that I had related to him the            
accidents which brought me there; that when he saw me without my            
covering I was an exact Yahoo in every part, only of a whiter color,        
less hairy, and with shorter claws. He added how I had endeavored to        
persuade him that in my own and other countries the Yahoos acted as         
the governing, rational animal, and held the Houyhnhnms in                  
servitude; that he observed in me all the qualities of a Yahoo, only a      
little more civilized by some tincture of reason, which however was in      
a degree as far inferior to the Houyhnhnm race as the Yahoos of             
their country were to me; that among other things I mentioned a custom      
we had of castrating Houyhnhnms when they were young, in order to           
render them tame; that the operation was easy and safe; that it was no      
shame to learn wisdom from brutes, as industry is taught by the ant,        
and building by the swallow. (For so I translate the word lyhannh,          
although it be a much larger fowl.) That this invention might be            
practiced upon the younger Yahoos here, which, besides rendering            
them tractable and fitter for use, would in an age put an end to the        
whole species without destroying life. That in the meantime the             
Houyhnhnms should be exhorted to cultivate the breed of asses,              
which, as they are in all respects more valuable brutes, so they            
have this advantage, to be fit for service at five years old, which         
the others are not till twelve.                                             
  This was all my master thought fit to tell me at that time of what        
passed in the grand council. But he was pleased to conceal one              
particular, which related personally to myself, whereof I soon felt         
the unhappy effect, as the reader will know in its proper place, and        
from which I date all the succeeding misfortunes of my life.                
  The Houyhnhnms have no letters, and consequently their knowledge          
is all traditional. But there happening few events of any moment among      
a people so well united, naturally disposed to every virtue, wholly         
governed by reason, and cut off from all commerce with other                
nations, the historical part is easily preserved without burdening          
their memories. I have already observed that they are subject to no         
diseases, and therefore can have no need of physicians. However,            
they have excellent medicines composed of herbs, to cure accidental         
bruises and cuts in the pastern or frog of the foot by sharp stones,        
as well as other maims and hurts in the several parts of the body.          
                                                     {P_4|CH_9 ^paragraph 5}
  They calculate the year by the revolution of the sun and the moon,        
but use no subdivisions into weeks. They are well enough acquainted         
with the motions of those two luminaries, and understand the nature of      
eclipses; and this is the utmost progress of their astronomy.               
  In poetry they must be allowed to excel all other mortals; wherein        
the justness of their similes, and the minuteness, as well as               
exactness of their descriptions, are indeed inimitable. Their verses        
abound very much in both of these, and usually contain either some          
exalted notions of friendship and benevolence, or the praises of those      
who were victors in races and other bodily exercises. Their buildings,      
although very rude and simple, are not inconvenient, but well               
contrived to defend them from all injuries of cold and heat. They have      
a kind of tree, which at forty years old loosens in the root, and           
falls with the first storm: they grow very straight, and being pointed      
like stakes with a sharp stone (for the Houyhnhnms know not the use of      
iron), they stick them erect in the ground about ten inches asunder,        
and then weave in oat straw, or sometimes wattles betwixt them. The         
roof is made after the same manner, and so are the doors.                   
  The Houyhnhnms use the hollow part between the pastern and the            
hoof of their fore feet as we do our hands, and this with greater           
dexterity than I could at first imagine. I have seen a white mare of        
our family thread a needle (which I lent her on purpose) with that          
joint. They milk their cows, reap their oats, and do all the work           
which requires hands, in the same manner. They have a kind of hard          
flints, which by grinding against other stones, they form into              
instruments, that serve instead of wedges, axes, and hammers. With          
tools made of these flints they likewise cut their hay and reap             
their oats, which there groweth naturally in several fields: the            
Yahoos draw home the sheaves in carriages, and the servants tread them      
in certain covered huts, to get out the grain, which is kept in             
stores. They make a rude kind of earthen and wooden vessels, and            
bake the former in the sun.                                                 
  If they can avoid casualties, they die only of old age, and are           
buried in the most obscure places that can be found, their friends and      
relations expressing neither joy nor grief at their departure; nor          
does the dying person discover the least regret that he is leaving the      
world, any more than if he were upon returning home from a visit to         
one of his neighbors. I remember my master having once made an              
appointment with a friend and his family to come to his house upon          
some affair of importance, on the day fixed the mistress and her two        
children came very late; she made two excuses, first for her                
husband, who, as she said, happened that very morning to shnuwnh.           
The word is strongly expressive in their language, but not easily           
rendered into English; it signifies, to retire to his first mother.         
Her excuse for not coming sooner was that her husband dying late in         
the morning, she was a good while consulting her servants about a           
convenient place where his body should be laid; and I observed she          
behaved herself at our house as cheerfully as the rest, and died about      
three months after.                                                         
  They live generally to seventy or seventy-five years, very seldom to      
fourscore: some weeks before their death they feel a gradual decay,         
but without pain. During this time they are much visited by their           
friends, because they cannot go abroad with their usual ease and            
satisfaction. However, about ten days before their death, which they        
seldom fail in computing, they return the visits that have been made        
them by those who are nearest in the neighborhood, being carried in         
a convenient sledge drawn by Yahoos; which vehicle they use, not            
only upon this occasion, but when they grow old, upon long journeys,        
or when they are lamed by any accident. And therefore when the dying        
Houyhnhnms return those visits, they take a solemn leave of their           
friends, as if they were going to some remote part of the country,          
where they designed to pass the rest of their lives.                        
                                                    {P_4|CH_9 ^paragraph 10}
  I know not whether it may be worth observing that the Houyhnhnms          
have no word in their language to express any thing that is evil,           
except what they borrow from the deformities or ill qualities of the        
Yahoos. Thus they denote the folly of a servant, an omission of a           
child, a stone that cuts their feet, a continuance of foul or               
unseasonable weather, and the like, by adding to each the epithet of        
Yahoo. For instance, Hhnm Yahoo, Whnaholm Yahoo, Ynlhmndwihlma Yahoo,       
and an ill-contrived house Ynholmhnmrohlnw Yahoo.                           
  I could with great pleasure enlarge further upon the manners and          
virtues of this excellent people; but intending in a short time to          
publish a volume by itself expressly upon that subject, I refer the         
reader there, and in the meantime, proceed to relate my own sad             
catastrophe,                                                                
                                                                            
P_4|CH_10                                                                   
  CHAPTER X                                                                 
-                                                                           
  I had settled my little economy to my own heart's content. My master      
had ordered a room to be made for me after their manner, about six          
yards from the house; the sides and floors of which I plastered with        
clay, and covered with rushmats of my own contriving; I had beaten          
hemp, which there grows wild, and made of it a sort of ticking; this I      
filled with the feathers of several birds I had taken with springes         
made of Yahoos' hairs, and were excellent food. I had worked two            
chairs with my knife, the sorrel nag helping me in the grosser and          
more laborious part. When my clothes were worn to rags, I made              
myself others with the skins of rabbits, and of a certain beautiful         
animal about the same size, called nnuhnoh, the skin of which is            
covered with a fine down. Of these I likewise made very tolerable           
stockings. I soled my shoes with wood which I cut from a tree and           
fitted to the upper leather, and when this was worn out, I supplied it      
with the skins of Yahoos dried in the sun. I often got honey out of         
hollow trees, which I mingled with water, or ate with my bread. No man      
could more verify the truth of these two maxims, That nature is very        
easily satisfied; and That necessity is the mother of invention. I          
enjoyed perfect health of body, and tranquillity of mind; I did not         
feel the treachery or inconstancy of a friend, nor the injuries of a        
secret or open enemy. I had no occasion of bribing, flattering, or          
pimping to procure the favor of any great man or of his minion. I           
wanted no fence against fraud or oppression; here was neither               
physician to destroy my body, nor lawyer to ruin my fortune; no             
informer to watch my words and actions, or forge accusations against        
me for hire; here were no gibers, censurers, backbiters,                    
pickpockets, highwaymen, housebreakers, attorneys, bawds, buffoons,         
gamesters, politicians, wits, splenetics, tedious talkers,                  
controvertists, ravishers, murderers, robbers, virtuosos; no leaders        
or followers of party and faction; no encouragers to vice, by               
seducement or examples; no dungeon, axes, gibbets, whipping posts,          
or pillories; no cheating shopkeepers or mechanics; no pride,               
vanity, or affectation; no fops, bullies, drunkards, strolling whores,      
or poxes; no ranting, lewd, expensive wives; no stupid, proud pedants;      
no importunate, overbearing, quarrelsome, noisy, roaring, empty,            
conceited, swearing companions; no scoundrels, raised from the dust         
for the sake of their vices, or nobility thrown into it on account          
of their virtues: no lords, fiddlers, judges, or dancing masters.           
  I had the favor of being admitted to several Houyhnhnms, who came to      
visit or dine with my master; where his Honor graciously suffered me        
to wait in the room, and listen to their discourse. Both he and his         
company would often descend to ask me questions, and receive my             
answers. I had also sometimes the honor of attending my master in           
his visits to others. I never presumed to speak, except in answer to a      
question; and then I did it with inward regret, because it was a            
loss of so much time for improving myself; but I was infinitely             
delighted with the station of an humble auditor in such conversations,      
where nothing passed but what was useful, expressed in the fewest           
and most significant words; where the greatest decency was observed,        
without the least degree of ceremony; where no person spoke without         
being pleased himself, and pleasing his companions; where there was no      
interruption, tediousness, heat, or difference of sentiments. They          
have a notion that when people are met together, a silence does much        
improve conversation: this I found to be true; for during those little      
intermissions of talk, new ideas would arise in their thoughts,             
which very much enlivened the discourse. Their subjects are                 
generally on friendship and benevolence, or order and economy;              
sometimes upon the visible operations of nature, or ancient                 
traditions; upon the bounds and limits of virtue; upon the unerring         
rules of reason, or upon some determinations to be taken at the next        
great assembly; and often upon the various excellencies of poetry. I        
may add without vanity that my presence often gave them sufficient          
matter for discourse, because it afforded my master an occasion of          
letting his friends into the history of me and my country, upon             
which they were all pleased to descant in a manner not very                 
advantageous to human kind; and for that reason I shall not repeat          
what they said: only I may be allowed to observe that his Honor, to my      
great admiration, appeared to understand the nature of Yahoos in all        
countries much better than myself. He went through all our vices and        
follies, and discovered many which I had never mentioned to him, by         
only supposing what qualities a Yahoo of their country, with a small        
proportion of reason, might be capable of exerting; and concluded,          
with too much probability, how vile as well as miserable such a             
creature must be.                                                           
  I freely confess that all the little knowledge I have of any value        
was acquired by the lectures I received from my master, and from            
hearing the discourses of him and his friends; to which I should be         
prouder to listen than to dictate to the greatest and wisest                
assembly in Europe. I admired the strength, comeliness, and speed of        
the inhabitants; and such a constellation of virtues in such amiable        
persons produced in me the highest veneration. At first, indeed, I did      
not feel that natural awe which the Yahoos and all other animals            
bear towards them; but it grew upon me by degrees, much sooner than         
I imagined, and was mingled with a respectful love and gratitude, that      
they would condescend to distinguish me from the rest of my species.        
  When I thought of my family, my friends, my countrymen, or human          
race in general, I considered them as they really were, Yahoos in           
shape and disposition, perhaps a little more civilized, and                 
qualified with the gift of speech, but making no other use of reason        
than to improve and multiply those vices whereof their brethren in          
this country had only the share that nature allotted them. When I           
happened to behold the reflection of my own form in a lake or               
fountain, I turned away my face in horror and detestation of myself,        
and could better endure the sight of a common Yahoo than of my own          
person. By conversing with the Houyhnhnms, and looking upon them            
with delight, I fell to imitate their gait and gesture, which is now        
grown into an habit, and my friends often tell me in a blunt way, that      
I trot like a horse; which, however, I take for a great compliment.         
Neither shall I disown that in speaking I am apt to fall into the           
voice and manner of the Houyhnhnms, and hear myself ridiculed on            
that account without the least mortification.                               
  In the midst of all this happiness, and when I looked upon myself to      
be fully settled for life, my master sent for me one morning a              
little earlier than his usual hour. I observed by his countenance that      
he was in some perplexity, and at a loss how to begin what he had to        
speak. After a short silence he told me he did not know how I would         
take what he was going to say; that in the last general assembly, when      
the affair of the Yahoos was entered upon, the representatives had          
taken offense at his keeping a Yahoo (meaning myself) in his family         
more like a Houyhnhnm than a brute animal. That he was known                
frequently to converse with me, as if he could receive some                 
advantage or pleasure in my company; that such a practice was not           
agreeable to reason or nature, nor a thing ever heard of before             
among them. The assembly did therefore exhort him, either to employ me      
like the rest of my species, or command me to swim back to the place        
from where I came. That the first of these expedients was utterly           
rejected by all the Houyhnhnms who had ever seen me at his house or         
their own: for they alleged that because I had some rudiments of            
reason, added to the natural pravity of those animals, it was to be         
feared I might be able to seduce them into the woody and mountainous        
parts of the country, and bring them in troops by night to destroy the      
Houyhnhnms cattle, as being naturally of the ravenous kind, and averse      
from labor.                                                                 
                                                    {P_4|CH_10 ^paragraph 5}
  My master added that he was daily pressed by the Houyhnhnms of the        
neighborhood to have the assembly's exhortation executed, which he          
could not put off much longer. He doubted it would be impossible for        
me to swim to another country, and therefore wished I would contrive        
some sort of vehicle resembling those I had described to him, that          
might carry me on the sea; in which work I should have the                  
assistance of his own servants, as well as those of his neighbors.          
He concluded that for his own part he could have been content to            
keep me in his service as long as I lived; because he found I had           
cured myself of some bad habits and dispositions, by endeavoring, as        
far as my inferior nature was capable, to imitate the Houyhnhnms.           
  I should here observe to the reader, that a decree of the general         
assembly in this country is expressed by the word hnhloayn, which           
signifies an exhortation, as near as I can render it; for they have no      
conception how a rational creature can be compelled, but only               
advised or exhorted, because no person can disobey reason without           
giving up his claim to be a rational creature.                              
  I was struck with the utmost grief and despair at my master's             
discourse, and being unable to support the agonies I was under, I fell      
into a swoon at his feet; when I came to myself he told me that he          
concluded I had been dead (for these people are subject to no such          
imbecilities of nature). I answered in a faint voice that death             
would have been too great a happiness; that although I could not blame      
the assembly's exhortation, or the urgency of his friends, yet, in          
my weak and corrupt judgment, I thought it might consist with reason        
to have been less rigorous. That I could not swim a league, and             
probably the nearest land to theirs might be distant above a                
hundred; that many materials necessary for making a small vessel to         
carry me off, were wholly wanting in this country, which, however, I        
would attempt in obedience and gratitude to his Honor, although I           
concluded the thing to be impossible, and therefore looked on myself        
as already devoted to destruction. That the certain prospect of an          
unnatural death was the least of my evils; for supposing I should           
escape with life by some strange adventure, how could I think with          
temper of passing my days among Yahoos, and relapsing into my old           
corruptions, for want of examples to lead and keep me within the paths      
of virtue? That I knew too well upon what solid reasons all the             
determinations of the wise Houyhnhnms were founded, not to be shaken        
by arguments of mine, a miserable Yahoo; and therefore, after               
presenting him with my humble thanks for the offer of his servants'         
assistance in making a vessel, and desiring a reasonable time for so        
difficult a work, I told him I would endeavor to preserve a wretched        
being; and if ever I returned to England, was not without hopes of          
being useful to my own species by celebrating the praises of the            
renowned Houyhnhnms, and proposing their virtues to the imitation of        
mankind.                                                                    
  My master in a few words made me a very gracious reply, allowed me        
the space of two months to finish my boat; and ordered the sorrel nag,      
my fellow servant (for so this distance I may presume to call him)          
to follow my instructions, because I told my master that his help           
would be sufficient, and I knew he had a tenderness for me.                 
  In his company my first business was to go to that part of the coast      
where my rebellious crew had ordered me to be set on shore. I got upon      
a height, and looking on every side into the sea, fancied I saw a           
small island towards the northeast: I took out my pocket-glass, and         
could then clearly distinguish it about five leagues off, as I              
computed; but it appeared to the sorrel nag to be only a blue cloud;        
for as he had no conception of any country beside his own, so he could      
not be as expert in distinguishing remote objects at sea as we who          
so much converse in that element.                                           
                                                   {P_4|CH_10 ^paragraph 10}
  After I had discovered this island, I considered no farther; but          
resolved it should, if possible, be the first place of my                   
banishment, leaving the consequence to fortune.                             
  I returned home, and consulting with the sorrel nag, we went into         
a copse at some distance, where I with my knife, and he with a sharp        
flint fastened very artificially after their manner to a wooden             
handle, cut down several oak wattles about the thickness of a               
walking-staff, and some larger pieces. But I shall not trouble the          
reader with a particular description of my own mechanics; let it            
suffice to say that in six weeks time, with the help of the sorrel          
nag, who performed the parts that required most labor, I finished a         
sort of Indian canoe, but much larger, covering it with the skins of        
Yahoos well stitched together, with hempen threads of my own making.        
My sail was likewise composed of the skins of the same animal; but I        
made use of the youngest I could get, the older being too tough and         
thick; and I likewise provided myself with four paddles. I laid in a        
stock of boiled flesh, of rabbits and fowls, and took with me two           
vessels, one fined with milk and the other with water.                      
  I tried my canoe in a large pond near my master's house, and then         
corrected in it what was amiss; stopping all the chinks with Yahoos'        
tallow, till I found it staunch, and able to bear me and my freight.        
And when it was as complete as I could possibly make it, I had it           
drawn on a carriage very gently by Yahoos to the seaside, under the         
conduct of the sorrel nag and another servant.                              
-                                                                           
  When all was ready, and the day came for my departure, I took             
leave of my master and lady and the whole family, my eyes flowing with      
tears, and my heart quite sunk with grief. But his Honor, out of            
curiosity, and perhaps (if I may speak it without vanity) partly out        
of kindness, was determined to see me in my canoe, and got several          
of his neighboring friends to accompany him. I was forced to wait           
above an hour for the tide, and then observing the wind very                
fortunately bearing towards the island to which I intended to steer my      
course, I took a second leave of my master; but as I was going to           
prostrate myself to kiss his hoof, he did me the honor to raise it          
gently to my mouth. I am not ignorant how much I have been censured         
for mentioning this last particular. For my detractors are pleased          
to think it improbable that so illustrious a person should descend          
to give so great a mark of distinction to a creature so inferior as I.      
Neither have I forgot how apt some travelers are to boast of                
extraordinary favors they have received. But if these censurers were        
better acquainted with the noble and courteous disposition of the           
Houyhnhnms, they would soon change their opinion.                           
                                                   {P_4|CH_10 ^paragraph 15}
  I paid my respects to the rest of the Houyhnhnms in his Honor's           
company; then getting into my canoe, I pushed off from shore.               
                                                                            
P_4|CH_11                                                                   
  CHAPTER XI                                                                
-                                                                           
  I began this desperate voyage on February 15, 1714-5, at 9 o'clock        
in the morning. The wind was very favorable; however, I made use at         
first only of my paddles; but considering I should soon be weary,           
and that the wind might chop about, I ventured set up my little             
sail; and thus with the help of the tide I went at the rate of a            
league and a half an hour, as near as I could guess. My master and his      
friends continued on the shore till I was almost out of sight; and I        
often heard the sorrel nag (who always loved me) crying out, Hnuy illa      
nyha majah Yahoo, Take care of thyself, gentle Yahoo.                       
  My design was, if possible, to discover some small island                 
uninhabited, yet sufficient by my labor to furnish me with the              
necessaries of life, which I would have thought a greater happiness         
than to be first minister in the politest court of Europe; so horrible      
was the idea I conceived of returning to live in the society and under      
the government of Yahoos. For in such a solitude as I desired I             
could at least enjoy my own thoughts, and reflect with delight on           
the virtues of those inimitable Houyhnhnms, without any opportunity of      
degenerating into the vices and corruptions of my own species.              
  The reader may remember what I related when my crew conspired             
against me and confined me to my cabin. How I continued there               
several weeks without knowing what course we took; and when I was           
put ashore in the long-boat, how the sailors told me with oaths,            
whether true or false, that not in what part of the world we were.          
However, I did then believe us to be about ten degrees southward of         
the Cape of Good Hope, or about 45'degrees souther latitude, as I           
gathered from some general words I overheard among them, being I            
supposed to the southeast in their intended voyage to Madagascar.           
And although this were but little better than conjecture, I resolved        
to steer my course eastward, hoping to reach the south-west coast of        
New Holland, and perhaps some such island as I desired, lying westward      
of it. The wind was full west, and by six in the evening I computed         
I had gone eastward at least eighteen leagues, when I spied a very          
small island about half a league off, which I soon reached. It was          
nothing but a rock, with one creek, naturally arched by the force of        
tempests. Here I put in my canoe, and climbing up a part of the             
rock, I could plainly discover land to the east, extending from             
south to north. I lay all night in my canoe; and repeating my voyage        
early in the morning, I arrived in seven hours to the south-east point      
of New Holland. This confirmed me in the opinion I have long                
entertained, that the maps and charts place this country at least           
three degrees more to the east than it really is; which thought I           
communicated many years ago to my worthy friend Mr. Herman Moll, and        
gave him my reasons for it, although he has rather chosen to follow         
other authors.                                                              
  I saw no inhabitants in the place where I landed, and being unarmed,      
I was afraid of venturing far into the country. I found some shellfish      
on the shore, and ate them raw, not daring to kindle a fire, for            
fear of being discovered by the natives. I continued three days             
feeding on oysters and limpets, to save my own provisions; and I            
fortunately found a brook of excellent water, which gave me great           
relief.                                                                     
  On the fourth day, venturing out early a little too far, I saw            
twenty or thirty natives upon a height, not above five hundred yards        
from me. They were stark naked, men, women, and children, round a           
fire, as I could discover by the smoke. One of them spied me, and gave      
notice to the rest; five of them advanced towards me, leaving the           
women and children at the fire. I made what haste I could to the            
shore, and getting into my canoe, shoved off: the savages observing me      
retreat, ran after me; and before I could get far enough into the sea,      
discharged an arrow, which wounded me deeply on the inside of my            
left knee (I shall carry the mark to my grave). I apprehended the           
arrow might be poisoned, and paddling out of the reach of their             
darts (being a calm day), I made a shift to suck the wound and dress        
it as well as I could.                                                      
                                                    {P_4|CH_11 ^paragraph 5}
  I was at a loss what to do, for I durst not return to the same            
landing-place, but stood to the north, and was forced to paddle; for        
the wind, though very gentle, was against me, blowing northwest. As         
I was looking about for a secure landing-place, I saw a sail to the         
north-northeast, which appearing every minute more visible, I was in        
some doubt whether I should wait for them or no; but at last my             
detestation of the Yahoo race prevailed, and turning my canoe, I            
sailed and paddled together to the south, and got into the same             
creek from whence I set out in the morning, choosing rather to trust        
myself among these barbarians, than live with European Yahoos. I            
drew up my canoe as close as I could to the shore, and hid myself           
behind a stone by the little brook, which, as I have already said, was      
excellent water.                                                            
  The ship came within half a league of this creek, and sent her            
long-boat with vessels to take in fresh water (for the place it             
seems was very well known), but I did not observe it till the boat was      
almost on shore, and it was too late to seek another hiding-place. The      
seamen at their landing observed my canoe, and rummaging it all             
over, easily conjectured that the owner could not be far off. Four          
of them well armed searched every cranny and lurking-hole, till at          
last they found me flat on my face behind the stone. They gazed awhile      
in admiration at my strange uncouth dress, my coat made of skins, my        
wooden-soled shoes, and my furred stockings; from whence, however,          
they concluded I was not a native of the place, who all go naked.           
One of the seamen in Portuguese bid me rise, and asked who I was. I         
understood that language very well, and getting upon feet, said I           
was a poor Yahoo, banished from the Houyhnhnms, and desired they would      
please to let me depart. They admired to hear me answer them in             
their own tongue, and saw by my complexion I must be a European, but        
were at a loss to know what I meant by Yahoos and Houyhnhnms, and at        
the same time fell a laughing at my strange tone in speaking, which         
resembled the neighing of a horse. I trembled all the while between         
fear and hatred: I again desired leave to depart, and was gently            
moving to my canoe; but they laid hold of me, desiring to know what         
country I was of, whence I came, with many other questions. I told          
them I was born in England, from whence I came about five years ago,        
and then their country and ours were at peace. I therefore hoped            
they would not treat me as an enemy, since I meant them no harm, but        
was a poor Yahoo, seeking some desolate place where to pass the             
remainder of his unfortunate life.                                          
  When they began to talk, I thought I never heard or saw any thing so      
unnatural; for it appeared to me as dog or a cow should speak in            
England, or a Yahoo in Houyhnhnm-land The honest Portuguese were            
equally amazed at my strange dress, and the odd manner of delivering        
my words, which however they understood very well. They spoke to me         
with great humanity, and said they were sure the Captain would carry        
me gratis to Lisbon, from whence I might return to my own country;          
that two of the seamen would go back to the ship, inform the Captain        
of what they had seen, and receive his order; in the mean time, unless      
I would give my solemn oath not to fly, they would secure me by force.      
I thought it best to comply with their proposal. They were very             
curious to know my story, but I gave them very little satisfaction;         
and they all conjectured my misfortunes had impaired my reason. In two      
hours the boat, which went laden with vessels of water, returned            
with the Captain's command to fetch me on board. I fell on my knees to      
preserve my liberty; but all was in vain, and the men having tied me        
with cords, heaved me into the boat, from whence I was taken into           
the ship, and from thence into the Captain's cabin.                         
  His name was Pedro de Mendez; he was a very courteous and generous        
person; he entreated me to give some account of myself, and desired to      
know what I would eat or drink; said I should be used as well as            
himself, and spoke so many obliging things, that I wondered to find         
such civilities from a Yahoo. However, I remained silent and sullen; I      
was ready to faint at the very smell of him and his men. At last I          
desired something to eat out of my own canoe; but he ordered me a           
chicken and some excellent wine, and then directed that I should be         
put to bed in a very clean cabin. I would not undress myself, but           
lay on the bed-clothes, and in half an hour stole out, when I               
thought the crew was at dinner, and getting to the side of the ship         
was going to leap into the sea, and swim for my life, rather than           
continue among Yahoos. But one of the seamen prevented me, and              
having informed the Captain, I was chained to my cabin.                     
  After dinner Don Pedro came to me, and desired to know my reason for      
so desperate an attempt, assured me he only meant to do me all the          
service he was able, and spoke so very movingly, that at last I             
descended to treat him like an animal which had some little portion of      
reason. I gave him a very short relation of my voyage, of the               
conspiracy against me by own men, of the country where they set me          
on shore, and of my three years residence there. All which he looked        
upon as if it were a dream or a vision; whereat I took great                
offense, for I had quite forgotten the faculty of lying, so peculiar        
to Yahoos in all countries where they preside, and, consequently the        
disposition of suspecting truth in others of their own I asked him          
whether it were the custom in his country to say the thing that was         
not. I assured him I had almost forgotten what he meant by                  
falsehood, and if I had lived a thousand years in Houyhnhnm-land, I         
should never have heard a lie from the meanest servant, that I was          
altogether indifferent whether he believed me or not, but however,          
in return for his favors, I would give so much allowance to the             
corruption of his nature as to answer any objection he would please to      
make, and then he might easily discover the truth.                          
                                                   {P_4|CH_11 ^paragraph 10}
  The Captain, a wise man, after many endeavors to catch me tripping        
in some part of my story, at last began to have a better opinion of my      
veracity, and the rather, because he confessed he met with a Dutch          
skipper, who pretended to have landed with five others of his crew          
upon a certain island or continent south of New Holland, where they         
went for fresh water, and observed a horse driving before him               
several animals exactly resembling those I described under the name of      
Yahoos, with some other particulars, which the Captain said he had          
forgotten; because he then concluded them all to be lies. But he added      
that since I professed so inviolable an attachment to truth, I must         
give him my word of honor to bear him company in this voyage,               
without attempting any thing against my life, or else he would              
continue me a prisoner till we arrived at Lisbon. I gave him the            
promise he required, but at the same time protested that I would            
suffer the greatest hardships rather than return to live among Yahoos.      
  Our voyage passed without any considerable accident. In gratitude to      
the Captain I sometimes sat with him at his earnest request, and            
strove to conceal my antipathy to human kind, although it often             
broke out, which he suffered to pass without observation. But the           
greatest part of the day I confined myself to my cabin, to avoid            
seeing any of the crew. The Captain had often entreated me to strip         
myself of my savage dress, and offered to lend me the best suit of          
clothes he had. This I would not be prevailed on to accept,                 
abhorring to cover myself with any thing that had been on the back          
of a Yahoo. I only desired he would lend me two clean shirts, which         
having been washed since he wore them, I believed would not so much         
defile me. These I changed every second day, and washed them myself.        
  We arrived at Lisbon, Nov. 5, 1715. At our landing the Captain            
forced me to cover myself with his cloak, to prevent the rabble from        
crowding about me. I was conveyed to his own house, and at my               
earnest request he led me up to the highest room backwards. I conjured      
him to conceal from all persons what I had told him of the Houyhnhnms,      
because the least hint of such a story would not only draw numbers          
of people to see me, but probably put me in danger of being                 
imprisoned, or burned by the Inquisition. The Captain persuaded me          
to accept a suit of clothes newly made; but I would not suffer the          
tailor to take my measure; however, Don Pedro being almost of my size,      
they fitted me well enough. He accoutred me with other necessaries all      
new, which I aired for twenty-four hours before I would use them.           
  The Captain had no wife, nor above three servants, none of which          
were suffered to attend at meals, and his whole deportment was so           
obliging, added to very good human understanding, that I really             
began to tolerate his company. He gained so far upon me that I              
ventured to look out of the back window. By degrees I was brought into      
another room, from whence I peeped into the street, but drew my head        
back in a fright. In a week's time he seduced me down to the door. I        
found my terror gradually lessened, but my hatred and contempt              
seemed to increase. I was at last bold enough to walk the street in         
his company, but kept my nose well stopped with rue, or sometimes with      
tobacco.                                                                    
  In ten days Don Pedro, to whom I had given some account of my             
domestic affairs, put it upon me as a matter of honor and                   
conscience, that I ought to return to my native country, and live at        
home with my wife and children. He told me there was an English ship        
in the port just ready to sail, and he would furnish me with all            
things necessary. It would be tedious to repeat his arguments, and          
my contradictions. He said it was altogether impossible to find such a      
solitary island as I had desired to live in; but I might command in my      
own house, and pass my time in a manner as recluse as I pleased.            
                                                   {P_4|CH_11 ^paragraph 15}
  I complied at last, finding I could not do better. I left Lisbon the      
24th day of November, in an English merchantman, but who was the            
master I never inquired. Don Pedro accompanied me to the ship, and          
lent me twenty pounds. He took kind leave of me, and embraced me at         
parting, which I bore as well as I could. During this last voyage I         
had no commerce with the master or any of his men; but pretending I         
was sick, kept close in my cabin. On the fifth of December, 1715, we        
cast anchor in the Downs about nine in the morning, and at three in         
the afternoon I got safe to my house at Rotherhith.                         
  My wife and family received me with great surprise and joy,               
because they concluded me certainly dead; but I must freely confess         
the sight of them filled me only with hatred, disgust, and contempt,        
and the more by reflecting on the near alliance I had to them. For          
although since my unfortunate exile from the Houyhnhnm country, I           
had compelled myself to tolerate the sight of Yahoos, and to                
converse with Don Pedro de Mendez, yet my memory and imagination            
were perpetually filled with the virtues and ideas of those exalted         
Houyhnhnms. And when I began to consider that by copulating with one        
of the Yahoo species I had become a parent of more, it struck me            
with the utmost shame, confusion, and horror.                               
  As soon as I entered the house, my wife took me in her arms and           
kissed me, at which, having not been used to the touch of that              
odious animal for so many years, I fell in a swoon for almost an hour.      
At the time I am writing it is five years since my last return to           
England: during the first year I could not endure my wife or                
children in my presence, the very smell of them was intolerable,            
much less could I suffer them to eat in the same room. To this hour         
they dare not presume to touch my bread, or drink out of the same cup,      
neither was I ever able to let one of them take me by the hand. The         
first money I laid out was to buy two young stone-horses, which I keep      
in a good stable, and next to them the groom is my greatest                 
favorite; for I feel my spirits revived by the smell he contracts in        
the stable. My horses understand me tolerably well; I converse with         
them at least four hours every day. They are strangers to bridle or         
saddle; they live in great amity with me, and friendship to each            
other.                                                                      
                                                                            
P_4|CH_12                                                                   
  CHAPTER XII                                                               
-                                                                           
  Thus, gentle reader, I have given thee faithful history of my             
travels for sixteen years and above seven months; wherein I have not        
been so studious of ornament as truth. I could perhaps like others          
have astonished you with strange improbable tales; but I rather             
chose to relate plain matter of fact in the simplest manner and style;      
because my principal design was to inform, and not to amuse you.            
  It is easy for us who travel into remote countries, which are seldom      
visited by Englishmen or other Europeans, to form descriptions of           
wonderful animals both at sea and land. Whereas a traveler's chief aim      
should be to make men wiser and better, and to improve their minds          
by the bad as well as good example of what they deliver concerning          
foreign places.                                                             
  I could heartily wish a law was enacted, that every traveler, before      
he were permitted to publish his voyages, should be obliged to make         
oath before the Lord High Chancellor that all he intended to print was      
absolutely true to the best of his knowledge; for then the world would      
no longer be deceived as it usually is, while some writers, to make         
their works pass the better upon the public, impose the grossest            
falsities on the unwary reader. I have perused several books of             
travels with great delight in my younger days; but having since gone        
over most parts of the globe, and been able to contradict many              
fabulous accounts from my own observation, it has given me a great          
disgust against this part of reading, and some indignation to see           
the credulity of mankind so impudently abused. Therefore since my           
acquaintances were pleased to think my poor endeavors might not be          
unacceptable to my country, I imposed on myself as a maxim, never to        
be swerved from, that I would strictly adhere to truth; neither indeed      
can I be ever under the least temptation to vary from it, while I           
retain in my mind the lectures and example of my noble master, and the      
other illustrious Houyhnhnms, of whom I had so long the honor to be         
a humble bearer.                                                            
-                                                                           
      ---Nec si miserum Fortuna Sinonem                                     
                                                    {P_4|CH_12 ^paragraph 5}
      Finxit, vanum etiam, mendacemque improba finget.                      
-                                                                           
  I know very well how little reputation is to be gotten by writings        
which require neither genius nor learning, nor indeed any other             
talent, except a good memory or an exact journal. I know likewise that      
writers of travels, like dictionary-makers, are sunk into oblivion          
by the weight and bulk of those who come after, and therefore lie           
uppermost. And it is highly probable that such travelers who shall          
hereafter visit the countries described in this work of mine, may,          
by detecting my errors (if there be any), and adding many new               
discoveries of their own, jostle me out of vogue, and stand in my           
place, making the world forget that I was ever an author. This              
indeed would be too great a mortification if I wrote for fame: but, as      
my sole intention was the PUBLIC GOOD, I cannot be altogether               
disappointed. For who can read of the virtues I have mentioned in           
the glorious Houyhnhnms, without being ashamed of his own vices,            
when he considers himself as the reasoning, governing animal of his         
country? I shall say nothing of those remote nations where Yahoos           
preside; amongst which the least corrupted are the Brobdingnagians,         
whose wise maxims in morality and government it would be our happiness      
to observe. But I forbear descanting farther, and rather leave the          
judicious reader to own remarks and applications.                           
  I am not a little pleased that this work of mine can possibly meet        
with no censurers: for what objections can be made against a writer         
who relates only plain facts that happened in such distant                  
countries, where we have not the least interest with respect either to      
trade or negotiations? I have carefully avoided every fault with which      
common writers of travels are often too justly charged. Besides, I          
meddle not the least with any party, but write without passion,             
prejudice, or illwill against any man or number of men whatsoever. I        
write for the noblest end, to inform and instruct mankind, over whom I      
may, without breach of modesty, pretend to some superiority, from           
the advantages I received by conversing so long among the most              
accomplished Houyhnhnms. I write without any view towards profit or         
praise. I never suffer a word to pass that may look like reflection,        
or possibly give the least offence even to those who are most ready to      
take it. So that I hope I may with justice pronounce myself an              
author perfectly blameless, against whom the tribes of answerers,           
considerers, observers, reflecters, detecters, remarkers, will never        
be able to find matter for exercising their talents.                        
  I confess it was whispered to me that I was bound in duty as a            
subject of England to have given in a memorial to a Secretary of State      
at my first coming over; because whatever lands are discovered by a         
subject belong to the Crown. But I doubt whether our conquests in           
the countries I treat of, would be as easy as those of Ferdinando           
Cortez over the naked Americans. The Lilliputians I think are hardly        
worth the charge of a fleet and army to reduce them; and I question         
whether it might be prudent or safe to attempt the Brobdingnagians; or      
whether an English army would be much at their ease with the Flying         
Island over their heads. The Houyhnhnms, indeed, appear not to be so        
well prepared for war, a science to which they are perfect                  
strangers, and especially against missive weapons. However,                 
supposing myself to be a minister of state, I could never give my           
advice for invading them. Their prudence, unanimity,                        
unacquaintedness with fear, and their love of their country, would          
amply supply all defects in the military art. Imagine twenty                
thousand of them breaking into the midst of a European army,                
confounding the confounding the ranks, overturning the carriages,           
battering the warriors' faces into mummy by terrible yerks from             
their hinder hoofs. For they would well deserve the character given to      
Augustus: Recalcitrat unclique tutus. But instead of proposals for          
conquering that magnanimous nation, I rather wish they were in a            
capacity or disposition to send a number of their inhabitants for           
civilizing Europe, by teaching us the first principles of honor,            
truth, temperance, public spirit, fortitude, chastity, benevolence,         
and fidelity. The names of all which virtues are still retained             
among us in languages, and are to be met with in modern as well as          
ancient which I am able to assert from my own small reading.                
                                                   {P_4|CH_12 ^paragraph 10}
  But I had another reason which made me less forward to enlarge his        
Majesty's dominions by my discoveries. To say the truth, I had              
conceived a few scruples with relation to the distributive justice          
of princes upon those occasions. For instance, a crew of pirates are        
driven by a storm they know not whither, at length a boy discovers          
land from the topmast, they go on shore to rob and plunder, they see a      
harmless people, are entertained with kindness, they give the               
country a new name, they take formal possession of it for their             
King, they set up a rotten plank or a stone for a memorial, they            
murder two or three dozen of the natives, bring away a couple more          
by force for a sample, return home, and get their pardon. Here              
commences a new dominion acquired with a title by divine right.             
Ships are sent with the first opportunity, the natives driven out or        
destroyed, their princes tortured to discover their gold, a free            
license given to all acts of inhumanity and lust, the earth reeking         
with the blood of its inhabitants: and this execrable crew of butchers      
employed in so pious an expedition, is a modern colony sent to convert      
and civilize an idolatrous and barbarous people.                            
  But this description, I confess, does by no means affect the British      
nation, who may be an example to the whole world for their wisdom,          
care, and justice in planting colonies; their liberal endowments for        
the advancement of religion and learning; their choice of devout and        
able pastors to propagate Christianity; their caution in stocking           
their provinces with people of sober lives and conversations from this      
the mother kingdom; their strict regard to the distribution of              
justice, in supplying the civil administration through all their            
colonies with officers of the greatest abilities, utter strangers to        
corruption; and to crown all, by sending the most vigilant and              
virtuous governors, who have no other views than the happiness of           
the people over whom they preside, and the honor of the King their          
master.                                                                     
  But, as those countries which I have described do not appear to have      
any desire of being conquered, and enslaved, murdered or driven out by      
colonies, nor abound either in gold, silver, sugar, or tobacco; I           
did humbly conceive they were by no means proper objects of our             
zeal, our valor, or our interest. However, if those whom it more            
concerns think fit to be of another opinion, I am ready to depose,          
when I shall be lawfully called, that no European did ever visit these      
countries before me. I mean, if the inhabitants ought to he                 
believed; unless a dispute may arise about the two Yahoos, said to          
have been seen many ages ago in a mountain in Houyhnhnm-land, from          
whence the opinion is, that the race of those brutes has descended;         
and these, for anything I know, may have been English, which indeed         
I was apt to suspect from the lineaments of their posterity's               
countenances, although very much defaced. But, how far that will go to      
make out a title, I leave to the learned in colony-law.                     
  But as to the formality of taking possession in my Sovereign's name,      
it never came once into my thoughts; and if it had, yet as my               
affairs then stood, I should perhaps in point of prudence and               
self-preservation have put it off to a better opportunity.                  
  Having thus answered the only objection that can ever be raised           
against me as a traveler, I here take a final leave of all my               
courteous readers, and return to enjoy my own speculations in my            
little garden at Redriff, to apply those excellent lessons of virtue        
which I learned among the Houyhnhnms, to instruct the Yahoos of my own      
family as far as I shall find them docile animals; to behold my figure      
often in a glass, and thus if possible habituate myself by time to          
tolerate the sight of a human creature; to lament the brutality of          
Houyhnhnms in my own country, but always treat their persons with           
respect, for the sake of my noble master, his family, his friends, and      
the whole Houyhnhnm race, whom these ours have the honor to resemble        
in all their lineaments, however their intellectuals came to                
degenerate.                                                                 
                                                   {P_4|CH_12 ^paragraph 15}
  I began last week to permit my wife to sit at dinner with me, at the      
farthest end of a long table, and to answer (but with the utmost            
brevity) the few questions I ask her. Yet the smell of a Yahoo              
continuing very offensive, I always keep my nose well stopped with          
rue, lavender, or tobacco leaves. And although it be hard for a man         
late in life to remove old habits, I am not altogether out of hopes in      
some time to suffer a neighbor Yahoo in my company, without the             
apprehensions I am yet under of his teeth or his claws.                     
  My reconcilement to the Yahoo-kind in general might not be so             
difficult, if they would be content with those vices and follies            
only which nature has entitled them to. I am not in the least provoked      
at the sight of a lawyer, a pick-pocket, a colonel, a fool, a lord,         
a gamester, a politician, a whore-master, a physician, an evidence,         
a suborner, an attorney, a traitor, or the like; this is all according      
to the due course of things: but when I behold a lump of deformity and      
diseases both in body and mind, smitten with pride, it immediately          
breaks all the measures of my patience; neither shall I be ever able        
to comprehend how such an animal and such a vice could tally together.      
The wise and virtuous Houyhnhnms, who abound in all excellencies            
that can adorn a rational creature, have no name for this vice in           
their language, which has no terms to express anything that is evil,        
except those whereby they describe the detestable qualities of their        
Yahoos, among which they were not able to distinguish this of pride,        
for want of thoroughly understanding human nature, as it shows              
itself in other countries, where that animal presides. But I, who           
had more experience, could plainly observe some rudiments of it             
among the wild Yahoos.                                                      
  But the Houyhnhnms, who live under the government of reason, are          
no more proud of the good qualities they possess, than I should be for      
not wanting a leg or an arm, which no man in his wits would boast           
of, although he must be miserable without them. I dwell the longer          
upon this subject from the desire I have to make the society of an          
English Yahoo by any means not insupportable; and therefore I here          
entreat those who have any tincture of this absurd vice, that they          
will not presume to come in my sight.                                       
-                                                                           
                             THE END                                        
                                                                            
                                                                            

Electronically Enhanced Text  (C) Copyright 1991, 1992, World Library, Inc. 
--------------------------------------------------------------